[MUSIC] Okay, welcome back. So now that we have discussed the concept
of pre-attentive attributes in the last lesson, for this lesson we're going to
be talking about the most important of these, which is color. With color, if we overuse it, we lose
the ability to focus our audience's attention where we need it to be. It'll basically get dissipated. But if we underuse it, we lose the ability
to really direct our attention. So it is about trying to
find the right balance. We're going to go back to Tableau and
develop some great ways to be able to create some pre-attentive
attributes using color. What we have here is our sales
superstore working file. Now you should already have this
saved somewhere on your computer, but in case you don't, we have a link
that's available for you to use. The question that we're going to
answer today is whether or not profit and sales go hand in hand. Regarding the who of the who, what and
how that we have talked about before is the question was asked
by the CFO of the company. She doesn't have time to try to
understand complex visualizations. She understands data very well,
but is now in meetings all day, and really isn't in a position
to do a deep dive on the data. What she needs is the ability to
quickly get at what the issue is, if there is an issue with profit and
sales from a list of people. I have the final product here. When we create a Tableau visualization or
any visualization at all, particularly in Excel or Tableau, we should not be
okay with what's provided as the default. It looks good and that's great, but we
should make sure that we are a answering the question that we have been
asked to provide the answer for. Don't create a visualization that forces
the customer to interpret the visual, otherwise you've simply lost a plot. All right, so
we're going to do this systematically. This is in a way another lesson in Tableau
on how to get some of the attributes in place that we need. But it's mostly a way to
highlight how to incorporate pre-attentive attributes, and specifically
the pre-attentive attribute of color. So I want you to create a new
sheet in your Tableau instance, and rename it as pre-attentive color. You can, of course,
rename it whatever you'd like. But let's just call it
pre-attentive color, so that we can keep track of
why we have this worksheet. I'd like you now to drag
the Sales measure to Columns, like I'm doing here, and
the Customer Name measure to the Rows. And now let's just sort it by sales. Right now it's sorted by customer name. Let's just sort it by sales. Well that's really interesting. If you look at this, there is one person,
looks like Sean Miller, he has in sales an incredible
amount of sales. He has over 25,000. And the second place, Tamara Chand,
only has less than 20,000. So it's actually a pretty impressive
how well Sean Miller is doing. Now I want you to drag the Profit Ratio
measure to the Color mark like so. If you remember, the question that we're
posing is not who had the highest sales, but who had the highest profit ratio
in terms of sales, and whether or not profit and sales go hand in hand. So we need to actually have
that additional measure, which is the profit ratio. Well, well, well,
Sean Miller sales are definitely not looking quite as awesome as it did before,
does it? Adding a little bit of
context certainly helps. Because our job is to be experts on
the data that we're visualizing, we know what's going on here. We know the story, and
it is pretty straightforward to figure out that Sean Miller,
he's not doing anything wrong necessarily. All he's doing is he's giving deeper
discounts, which is getting more sales, but the result is he's not able to
break a profit on his products. However, the audience for
this visualization is not you or me. It's the CFO of the company. And we don't want to
give this multicolored visualization that's
going to be all confusing. What we need to do it break it down for
her so she doesn't have to spend even a minute or
two to try to figure this out. We want her to be able to
see it immediately and just know what the answer is. This is where pre-attentive
attributes come into play, and this is of course specifically
pre-attentive attributes using color. I want it to be clear to the CFO
whose profits are less than zero. In other words, who is not making money? That means I only really need two colors, one that highlights the ones
who aren't making the profit, and the others,
presumably the ones who are. And so that's it,
because that's the information. It's either they are making profits or
they're not. So let's do this. Let's use the color pallet and
fix the color so that we have a light grey to represent
those that actually made money, made a profit, and
red to indicate that there was a loss. So it's irrespective of
the number of sales. So the color is based on red if
the profit was less than zero, gray, a very light gray,
if they made money. So I'm just doing that right now,
and then we can see the difference. So the only difference now is that the names are a little bit smaller,
or the gap between them is a little bit bigger in the after
than they are in the before. So we could just fix that right now. And voila, we can see actually
that the situation appears to be, the interpretation here is that Sean Miller in particular, but also,
it looks like Becky Martin and Graham Thornton and Peter Fuller,
they all made a lot of sales. But sold at a loss, which means they
gave a lot of discounts out in order to pump up their sales number. While Tamara Chand in particular, but also
Raymond Bush and Tom Ashbrook and some of those people, made a very large amount of
profit without having to discount at all. Now I'm not attributing anything about
Sean Miller versus Tamara Chand. There maybe different circumstances,
but that's not for us to decide. What we're just saying is
interpreting the fact that Sean Miller seems to have made a lot
of sales, yet lost a lot of money too. And so we need to delve into that more,
but I think this is the initial foray. The CFO probably would get back to me and ask further questions about getting more
detailed deep dive into the information, but this is a nice way to do
the high level look at it. This is actually a very
innovative way to design visuals. It's something that is
becoming a growing consensus. Having shades of gray,
preferably lighter, and then a single color to draw attention
where it needs to be drawn. It really adds that contrast to it. It doesn't work for every circumstance,
but in the world of visualizations, this is becoming more and more the norm. So I encourage you to really
think about doing it in this way. As we conclude, I want to just reiterate
a couple of important pieces here. When we use color or any other
thing as a pre-attentive attribute, we want to remember three things. One is we want to use this sparingly. Two, we want to use it consistently. And three, we want it designed
to contrast in color with care. That means we should choose it either as a
brand or some other very important marker. So I'll see you soon, when we do
a decluttering of a visualization. It's so exciting. And I'll see you soon.