[MUSIC] Hello and welcome to this module
on Design for Understanding. Making sense of large multidimensional
data sets can be a challenge for anyone. Your task as a designer is to make good
decisions about encoding, arranging, and presenting data to reveal meaningful
patterns and stories for your audiences. Throughout the other modules, you've
already seen how getting the most from data visualization begins with keeping
a few features of the human brain in mind. Recall that System 1 involves automatic
and relatively immediate perception. While System 2 is a slower and
more deliberative thought process. As a data visualization designer, you need
to work with both of these systems in a way that enhances people's ability
to both clearly perceive and accurately think about the data. But the process doesn't end there. For this module, let's take these steps
a bit further and consider visualization strategies tailored for target audiences
and the types of data that they are using. As you create your visualizations,
think of yourself as a kind of architect. Your basic building materials include
visual and coding elements such as color, shape, and size. Your task is to assemble these
elements into forms that effectively leverage people's
perceptual abilities. But the story doesn't end there. Just as an architect needs
to consider factors ranging from construction materials and
location, to people and the purposes for which the building is intended. You need to consider your materials,
contexts, audiences, and purposes for your visualizations. Your designs may begin with
visual perception principles, but need to finish by enabling a clear and accurate understanding of
the data by your audience. In this lesson, let's explore putting
together some building blocks. Selecting good visual encoding options
in combinations is a bit of an art and a science. To illustrate this point, let's start
with a simple example using encodings for color and shape. In this case,
we can see there are two primary groups. One orange and the other blue. Within the two groups there
are two subtypes based on shapes. In this example, circle and squares. You may find that the colors pop out at
you more immediately then the shapes. But the two kinds of encodings
don't interfere with each other. How much more can be added to express
greater depth of information in detail without overloading the user? As we will explore, the answer to
that will depend on many factors. Shapes, colors, and other design elements
are kind of visual alphabet that can be mixed and matched to express compact,
but rich and detailed visual stories. Say with additional colors,
shapes, or lines. Different kinds of visual encoding options
have different strengths and weaknesses. For example, as we have seen, colors are a
powerful way to make patterns stand out. And to distinguish different categories or
groups. However, it is not the right choice for presenting certain kinds of
precise quantitative measures. For that kind of precision, attributes
like length and 2D position are needed. That said, color can be helpful in giving qualitative
sense of certain kinds of data. One common approach is showing
a level of intensity or activity with a darker more saturated
color indicating higher activity. And a lighter less saturated color
showing lower or less activity. Even one of the simplest elements,
the line, can be modified to communicate different
quantitative and qualitative measures. Let's take a pair of lines and
modify them to see what we can do to make them express different
aspects of the data. My length can be used to show
precise quantitive differences. Whereas line thickness can be used to show
qualitative distinctions in the relative strength of connection between two
entities in say, a network graph. Line color differentiates
categories while 2D position can provide a quantitative representation of,
for example, change over time. How many visual attributes
can you think of for showing either quantitative or
qualitative measures? Here is a list of a few common elements. Length, position, 2D position, orientation, line width, size, shape, hue, intensity, and others. We've only scratched
the surface of this topic. And to learn more, I'd recommend reading
discussions in books by Colin Ware, Stephen Few, and Jacques Bertin. Now that we've seen and reviewed some
of the basic encoding elements and combinations for data visualization, let's begin to think about how to put
them together for target audiences. You should have a sense of who, when,
and where of your visualizations. And what kind of questions will
be helpful for you to ask and be able to answer in the process
of creating your designs. See you next time.