[MUSIC] Hi, as we have seen from the beginning
of this course, simple forms of visual encoding can be used to
tap into both systems one, and two. Although they are a powerful combination
for enabling analytics with data, our perceptual and cognitive systems
can also be mislead by visualizations. Even if that is not the creator's intent. As showed you through the Fox News and
Florida gun visualizations in module two. As visualization designer,
you need to recognize how to leverage people's perceptual and
cognitive strengths for analytics, and also be aware of
how these systems can be fooled. Depending on your design choices, the exact same data displayed in somewhat
different ways can sometimes lead to dramatically different
conclusions in your users mind. On the other hand,
your users may have mental models or biases that may prevent them from
interpreting data accurately. And part of your job is to help them
break through those mental roadblocks. Now, I want to tell you a little
story that illustrates the point I'm just talking about. In World War II, planes like this, the 24 Liberator, were
being shot down at a very alarming rate. So they decided to protect
the planes with more armor, which also means adding more weight. So they had to be very careful
about where they placed that armor. One thought is to go and look at
the planes that have come back, and see where the bullet holes are and
then cover those places in the wings and other areas where the bullet holes are. That's a great thought, but
it's also not the best approach. Can you say why? Well, it turns out that if the plane
made it back with bullet holes in it, it made it back. So it survived. So by definition, it was able to
withstand the damage to those areas. The damage to the areas of
the planes that didn't come back was the catastrophic damage. And that's what needed to be seen and
understood. That it's not what came back. It's what didn't come back
that mattered or both. And so that's called survivorship bias. How can a visualization help people
naturally inclined to think one way, think the reverse about a problem or
consider the data in a different way? Let's take a look at how that can be done. Perhaps you've heard the phrase
seeing is believing. Well, sometimes the reverse
is equally true. What you believe can
influence what you see. Although systems one and two, which
you've learned about in previous lessons, perform a powerful combination for
enabling analytics with data. They can also be mislead by
a certain design choices. Even if that's not
the creator's intention. Additionally, people's own beliefs, biases
and mental models, can distort their interpretation of a visualization
without them ever realizing it. Data visualization should reveal
meaningful patterns as accurately and clearly as possible and ideally,
let the data speak for itself. Part of your job is not to introduce
distortions to a design and ideally help prevent people from
unwittingly coming to false conclusion based on their own sets of biases. Your job as a visualization designer is
to find ways to help clarify the data. So that the users or audiences can look at
it and come to the correct conclusions. Just having the right data
is simply not enough, and frankly even presenting it in a correct
form isn't always enough either. It's really thinking about where users are
coming from, how much knowledge they have. How good they are at statistics, and
making design choices that will speak directly to them in the simplest most
straightforward and complete way possible. Of course, in order to make your case, you
need to capture the audiences attention. Let's take a look at a few examples. A multi-talented woman
named Florence Nightingale, who gained fame in the 19th
century as a nurse and social reformer, was also an early
experimenter in statistical graphics. She wanted to move her audience
which included Queen Victoria. With a data visualization that would
prompt change in the health care system. Her goal was to, as she put it,
affect through the eyes what we fail to convey to the public
though their word proof ears. To do this, she tried various approaches. One is called the Bat's Wing Diagram. It shows the mortality rates of
British soldiers from various causes over two years during the Crimean War. The main point of this visualization was
to show that soldiers were dying from factors that were non-battle related as a
much larger rate from the actual fighting. The circle on the right is
divided into 12 sections, each representing 1 month of
the year in a clock-wise manner. The length of the radial line in each
month is proportional to the death rate, but there's a problem here
that Nightingale caught and addressed quickly with
subsequent redesigns. Can you explain what that problem is? Well, the gives the impression
that the shaded area is proportional to the death rate rather than
the actual case, which is the length of the radial lines, which makes this
truly a gray area for visualization. Now, as I said, Florence Nightingale
caught the problem and redesigned the diagram to
make it more accurate. In Hera-Vision, the areas that are encoded
in a blue-gray color represent the mortality rates from
non-battle related causes. While the reddish-pink show
the battle related mortality. The death rate is
proportional to the area, rather than the length of the radii,
as in the earlier back screen version. Now this is a very interesting and
provocative visualization. And it continues to be
controversial today. It may not necessarily be the best way to
represent the information for everyone. There are certainly bar or line charts
that could do a better technical job but with visually arresting design Nightingale
hoped she would get through to her audience in a way that the more
conventional chart types may not have done. It appears that her strategy and
acceptance of the trade-offs may have worked and they downsized for a less
critical in this particular incidence. Now there's much more to this story that
goes beyond the scope of this lesson. That I'd highly recommend you read and
think about. You can find references
in the resources area. We've seen how design choices can
create distortions and understanding. But they can also help counteract
potential cognitive biases in your audiences, as well. As a visualization designer,
you might consider and try to anticipate potential biases,
especially common ones. And when possible, counteract them. Sometimes what might seem intuitive,
can just be a matter of bias. Recall in the introductory
video of this lesson. The survivorship bias example
with attempts to protect Allied Aircraft in World War II. The key in that instance was to
protect certain areas of the plane that were showing damage
in the returning craft. The problem was they were forgetting
about the damage on the ones that were not returning and
that damage was really critical. How might you design visualizations
that counter this tendency? Well, one approach is to use
multiple views of the data to show what is known about damage
patterns for returning planes. But also suggest and show areas of potential damage
from the ones that did not return. The places that were not shown
in the returning planes. At least somehow get their users
to think about that issue. In doing so, you get to think about
the problem in a different way, and that different way may make
the difference between life and death. Let's examine another scenario. Nancy has just been informed by her
position that she has a positive mammogram, but a positive mammogram
doesn't necessarily mean Nancy has cancer. And she is wondering what
exactly her chances are. The physician believes her chances
are around 80%, but she's incorrect. Why is that? Well, because of the positive result,
the doctor is already unconsciously tending to lump
her patient into the cancer category. As a result, she's only selectively
recalling a study about this issue, and in specific,
only the first column of the study. So when that comes to mind. That is the column that people
who have breast cancer. So with the people who have breast cancer,
the number of people who have a positive mammogram is eight, whereas the people
who have a negative mammogram is two. So eight out of ten or
80 % have breast cancer. The problem is, however, the doctor is not
considering the other column of people who have had a positive mammogram and
do not have breast cancer. Which is in fact quite
a substantial number. Here's what the numbers look
like in a simple diagram. As you can see by looking at all the
numbers in this context and arranged in a certain way, that out of 103 people
who tested positive from the mammogram, only 8 have cancer and 95 do not. It's all the same information, but it's
presented and arranged in a different way. That makes it, hopefully,
clearer that the chances that Nancy actually has cancer
are about 8% not 80%. While 8% is not trivial,
it's certainly much better than 80%. The point of all your efforts as a
visualization designer is to transform raw data into clear, accurate, and
meaningful insights in people's minds. There are many ways as process
to go right or wrong, but ultimately the final transformations
occur in your audience is minds. Your design choices from
basic visual encoding options to anticipating encountering
potential misinterpretations can all have an important impact
in the success of your work. Well, thanks for joining me in this
module on design for understanding. As we've learned, the human brain
is hardwired for visualization. And there is a visual language made up
of elements such as color, line length, shape, and interactivity that can be combined
to communicate meaning in your data. Often is the expert use of these basic
visual design elements that make a visualization go from good to great. It's important to fully consider
the needs, abilities and your visualization's audience before deciding
which design elements will suit them. Thanks very much for listening. Goodbye.