[MUSIC] Hi, welcome back. Well designed visualizations
need to work at many levels. Not only the visual elements, but also
the scale indicators and text used for labeling and describing the data as well. As we have seen in a previous lesson, there are many ways that visual design
elements can enhance or detract from the ability to correctly interpret
the meaning in the data visualization. The same applies for
language and scale decisions. For this final lesson, you will assess
how your choices in language, labeling, and showing scale in your visualizations
may affect your audience's interpretation of what is being shown. Let's take a look. Hi, and welcome back. While a picture may be worth 1,000 words,
sometimes a few key descriptors can really help clarify and
define what's going on in the picture. Or make the picture more confusing. Let's look at how language,
labeling, and elements such as scale indicators can make or break the
interpretation of a data visualization. Word choices and
descriptors that are familiar, or at least have clearer meanings
to your target audience, can help ensure that people understand the
meaning and context of the visualization. Consider that your audiences may have
very specific ways of wording things or understanding certain terminology
that may not be universally shared. So, for example, a word such as risk
might mean one thing to a person in the cyber security industry and
something entirely different to someone in the financial services or
insurance sectors. Without a basic awareness of your
audience's potential industry standard vocabulary, and
what they understand the words to mean for their particular context, you may be
throwing them off by labeling alone. Beyond industry specific connotations,
there can sometimes be substantial, geographical or cultural differences
within even, say, the English language. Let's say you're designing a dashboard and want to show the new data in
an area called New Today. The thing is that today maybe a clear and
simple term but also can be tricky when you
start to think about it. Many people might be looking at the
display in different parts of the world. So someone's today might be another
person's yesterday or tomorrow. On a more culture oriented level,
if it's cold, you might want to put on a sweater
in the US, but a jumper in the UK. It's the same kind of apparel,
but a very different name. In addition to challenges with specific
word meanings, there are other kinds of labeling problems that can be
introduced into a visualization. For example, cryptic terminologies,
unusual data labels, ambiguous data labels or acronyms that
come from column headers in a source database can get introduced
into your visualization. If so, these descriptors may not
be clear to your end users or anyone other than the creators
of the data table themselves. Along with word choice, considerations
about scale selection can have a significant impact on users'
perception of the data. For example, when representing a change
in amounts, the numerical starting point of the change can have a big
impact on the visual comparison. As in 1 to 4 versus 81 to 84. Percentage wise, the change from 1
to 4 is much greater than 81 to 84. So if they're put together and compared,
it's helpful to see, visually, that change in percentages
in the right framework. The uptick in both of
these cases is three, but in the first case the percentage
change is much larger. Consequently, the slope of the line
showing the change should be steeper. Depending on the choices of scale of
the visual impression of the comparative change, it can be either quite clear or
entirely misleading. Although there are some advanced
techniques for deriving comparable scales for different types of data, one simple
rule of thumb is to avoid broken axes. Or, said another way, starting an axis
not at a zero point to save space. Start your axes at zero when possible. Scale and comparisons can quickly
lead to visual distortions, so keep it as simple and
straightforward as possible always. Visualizations are a way to communicate
meaningful patterns in data. While the visual component is
generally the most obvious, part of the communication is also,
often necessarily, words and numbers. If the words and
numbers are not chosen carefully and thoughtfully, then the visual aspect
of the design may not be understood. That's something to really think about. See you next time.