[MUSIC] Welcome back. Your data visualization themselves
are only part of the picture. They exist in a format, such as a highly
interactive application interface or an infographic poster. Whether it's a dashboard for
an operations center or a fun facts graphic being shared
on Facebook, the context of your visualization will have an important
impact on your design choices. As we have seen in earlier lessons, the level of interactivity can depend on
whether the primary purpose is to explain the already known or
uncover meaningful and important unknowns. In this lesson you will need to consider
the context, potential workflows and interaction design implications of static
versus interactive visualizations. Let's have a look. Hi, when designing your visualizations
you will need to consider the context and potential workflows in which
your designs will be used. If a visualization is static, such as an
infographic poster, then it's essential to think very carefully about what data
is and it's not being displayed. Why? Well, because there's no way to
adjust the view of the final results. However, with interactive visualizations
and controls like filtering and zooming you have a lot more option. Of course increasing
the level of interactivity demands more from users
then a static chart. That is you are requiring people to make
their own decisions about what data to look at rather than presenting
them with predetermined views. In many cases this increase level of
interactivity and user autonomy is essential for the visualization to serve
its purpose and meet the users goals. Let's explore interactivity for
visualizations a bit more. Large data sets containing
complex relationships often generate visualizations
that are a total mess. For example, network diagrams can quickly
turn into confusing tangles of lines and shapes that are sometimes jokingly
referred to as hairballs or balls of spaghetti. This may not be a problem though
with the inclusion of filtering and zooming controls that can untangle and
make these messes more manageable. Within our activity, you can begin with
a big picture view drilled down to a lower level detail and then all
within the same workflow interface go somewhere else within
the same visualization. Data visualization pioneer,
Ben Shneiderman, has a saying or what's sometimes
referred to as a mantra for this kind of interaction and
data visualization. Overview first, zoom and
filter and then details on demand. Now this overview first, zoom and
filter process can be iterative so a user may dive in and
zoom out of different levels of detail and resolution in the course
of their analytic work. Data visualization researcher Colin Ware, has proposed an interesting
way of thinking about interactive visualizations in terms
of three interlocking feedback loops. Here's a rough,
paraphrased description of these loops and some design options and pitfalls that
I've seen in the course of my own work. The first is direct manipulation
of graphical objects. The second is exploration and navigation. And the third is problem solving and
question generation. In your design work, it's good to consider
making the most of each of these loops and how they interrelate with each
other in the visualization. Let's look at each a little more closely. Direct manipulation of graphical objects
is the ability to interact with various visual elements representing
data within the visualization. The visual elements on the screen can
actively serve many roles for example, by hovering on or rolling over point
of interest in a timeline for example. It can provide additional transient,
detailed information about that spot. Visual elements can also
act as input mechanisms as well as enhanced display items. One of the examples of this is selecting
a node in a network diagram to tag and save or to use as the focus in pivot
point for a new investigation. These kinds of interactions are commonly
done with clicks, right clicks, and small transient menus. While direct manipulation of
data is almost a necessity for many purposes there are also some
pitfalls which I've regularly seen. Being able to interact with visual
elements should be in the service of getting insights and not testing
the hand eye dexterity of your users. In some visualizations such stacked
column charts and bubble graphs for example, it can be extremely difficult to
precisely select and interact with a data point of interest because it's crowded out
or covered over by nearby visual elements. Sometimes the issue is that
the visual element of interest presents only a very small or
ambiguous selectable target area. Techniques such as outlining
a particular selected area or highlighting it on rollover can
be helpful to address this, as well as the ability to zoom in and
out of a particular spot. Exploration and navigation includes
the ability for people to easily and effectively find their way through
a visual information space. That is, does the interface design
help them enter, orient themselves, and get where they want to go, or discover
useful pathways ahead and anticipate it? What is the organization
of the navigation and the different areas of the screen
that people see and use? One issue here is that it's important for
people to navigate through an interactive visualization and to keep context
from the starting point and know what the options are available as
they move through different pathways. Or if they want to go back to a previous
point in an analytic process. Things like bread crumbs that show
a pathway a user has taken is one basic way to help give users context
as they work through a workflow. Problem solving and question
generation are two of the primary and ultimate purposes of data visualizations. Do the individual visual elements along
with the navigation, help or hinder the ability to problem solve or answer
questions that come up along the way. This is a deep topic that
extends beyond this lesson. But one of the keys, and
this may not surprise you to hear from me, is to know and understand the needs and
goals of your intended audiences. If possible get a problem
they need to solve. See how they do it currently. Map out a workflow for this process. And then storyboard with
visualization design sketches to see how those visualizations
might work in this process. We've only scratched the surface
of interactive visualizations. You can see there's a lot
to this fascinating topic. When you are doing your work think about
the different levels of interaction that you should consider, direct manipulation
of data representations, navigation and problem solving question generation. Through good design choices, you can
enable people to immerse themselves in a process like question and answering
sometimes called dynamic querying and focus on gaining insights rather than
focusing on distraction in interface or visualization elements. Recall the idea of your work as
a data visualization designer as being akin to that of an architect. Just as buildings are designed to provide
structures for people to move through, interactive visualizations
enable people to navigate or flow through large data sets. Building floor plans and
layouts that are shaped based on the needs of people in it and the
purposes of the structure is essential. The visual components and information architecture
are blueprints of your visualizations, need to support the ability of people
to walk through a process of discovery. Thanks for listening.