[MUSIC] Welcome back. As you've seen, data visualizations come
in a wide and expanding range of forms, have many different purposes and
have diverse sets of potential audiences. Are they analysts who need to comb through
data to find interesting patterns, trends, and anomalies? Or are they executives who need quick,
clear, and reliable summaries of about
some initiative or campaign? One size definitely does not fit all. In this lesson, I'll present a basic
framework for thinking about audiences, purposes and context for
your data visualizations. The more you can understand,
empathize and anticipate the needs of your intended audience and assemble
the right elements from your toolkit, the more successful your designs will be. The same applies for
understanding the purpose, the visualization, and
the types of data being used. Good visualization design means effective
communication with your audience. It helps to think about the interests,
needs, skills, and knowledge, and goals of the people who will be
engaging with your visualizations. There are a few fundamental questions
to keep in mind at the outset, including, one,
what are the interests, needs, and goals of your target audience that your
visualization can address in some way? For example, this can range from general
curiosity about an issue such as the relationship of life expectancies and personal income levels in
different parts of the world. To a specific need such as
seeing a real time alert about a potential hacker
intrusion to a network. Two, what is the audiences
expected level of familiarity and subject matter expertise
with the material? The level of prior knowledge and expectations can have a big impact
on how they view your visualization. Prior knowledge can sometimes help, and other times hinder, the ability and
usability of your design. We will examine the role of
prior knowledge, mental models, and bias further in a future lesson. Three, what is the appropriate level
of information density and detail that will fit with your target audience's
subject matter knowledge and needs? Realize that providing too much, or
too little, detail can sometimes be counterproductive, depending on who's
looking at the visualization. Four, how much or how little control do users have
in interacting with visualization? A potential trade-off here is that
control can require more effort and knowledge from the user. You should recognize that simplicity can
be relative for different types of users. If for example, your design in meant for
retail analysts, they may need a tool that can help them uncover
meaningful patterns and trends in data. In this instance, the emphasis is on
facilitating the process of exploration. If on the other hand, the user is a sales
person presenting quarterly returns to executives, the goal is for
the presentation to convey specific relevant information as
concisely as possible. It's also important to think
about the level of detail and scope of information that
different audiences may need. In the case of the analyst, she may need the ability to easily view
data in various time scales from say, days to years, whereas a salesperson may
only need to show quarterly results. These factors can all help
guide your design strategy. One common technique for
keeping different kinds of audiences clearly in mind is by
using what I refer to as personas. These are descriptions of user
types that capture characteristics, goals, and
needs of different types of users. For example, there can be a persona
that represents a retail analyst, and another that represents a salesperson. While personas may not be useful for every design project, they can provide
useful summaries of important types of people that can help sharpen your
thinking about targeted design. As we have seen, great data visualizations
are designed with the needs of their intended audience at the forefront. There are many considerations that can
guide your design choices when aiming for that target audience. We have touched on some important
considerations in this lesson. It's all about asking good
questions at the outset. Now the direction of a design may
change and evolve over time, but the good questions at the outset can
result in great results at the end. Creating a persona document
can be a useful exercise and adjunct for
capturing the needs of your audiences. The more you can understand and
anticipate those needs, and draw from your data visualization toolkit,
the better off you're going to be. See you next time.