[MUSIC] Welcome back. When it comes to enabling clear and
complete interpretations of data, different kinds of connected
visualizations can make a big difference. There is an old story
about three blind monks who are standing next to an elephant. One touched the tusk, another an ear,
and the third touched the tail. Because each of their experiences is
very different and disconnected, each of them walked away with a very different
idea of what was right in front of them. There are a few interaction design
techniques we are going to explore in this lesson, including brushing and
linking and pivoting, that enable making connections among
different aspects of the data possible. Essentially, they allow people
to see the elephant and not just a collection of
seemingly unrelated parts. Let's take a look. Being able to perceive things from
different vantage points can be essential for accurately interpreting what you
are seeing, and that includes data. Remember from the story about the monks
and the elephant, each of the monks was only able to perceive one aspect of
the elephant, a tusk, an ear or the tail. They each walked away with a very
different idea of what was in front of them. You don't want that to happen
to your audiences when they're looking at your
data visualizations. You want them to be able to see, so
to speak, the elephant in the data. Please take a look at these two images. Image A appears to be a circle and
Image B a separate square. However, if a third related image
is introduced into the set, you can see that image C is a cylinder and
that puts a new light onto A and B. You can see that A and
B are simply two different views. A, from the front on and B, from the top
down of the third image, the cylinder. Being able to see things from
different perspectives can make a huge difference in your understanding
of what you are looking at. By enabling people to see
the relationships between different views, just as we've seen in the circle,
square and cylinder, we're better able to understand what
we're looking at both in the entirety and also the individual component level. This concept is embodied in the way
that we have coordinated views for data visualization. That is, analyzing a data set by
looking at it and interacting with it in different but related visualizations
in a coordinated manner. The different views may contain a mix
of bar charts, scatter plots, and maps, for example. Common interactions include
coordinated highlighting and coordinated filtering of data. For example,
you might select a region on a map or scatter plot to capture some point of
interest to highlight or filter down and the related points in other views would
likewise be highlighted or filtered. This select connect type of interaction
is sometimes referred to as brushing and linking. One other idea I want to briefly
touch on in this lesson, about seeing data from different
perspectives, is the idea of pivoting. A basic description of a pivot
transformation is, viewing a data set in a table and then transforming the columns
and rows into a new configuration. Sometimes along with some
statistical summarization as well, that highlight some different
aspect of the data in the new view. More generically, the idea of pivoting
can also sometimes be used in describing the action of people analyzing data in
which they click on a data point of interest in one type of visualization, say
a node in a network graph, and change or pivot to a different kind of view of
the selected data, say in a scatter plot. Now as we've seen, sometimes the only way
to really gain a clear understanding of what you are looking at is to see
it from different perspectives. If they are designed well, data displays can give your
audiences the power to do just that. With tools like coordinated highlighting
and filtering on multiple chart types, people can be more effective analysts and
data explorers. One of the keys to make
the designs of this coordination work is to make it apparent and
easy to do. In the instances where the coordination
is not technically possible for some views, make those limitations
apparent to people as well. Thanks and see you next time.