[MUSIC] So we're still working in the same
space as in the last video. I want you to double-click on
the worksheet tab we just created, and type in Line Chart of World GDP. Navigate to the other worksheet. Let's rename this World Map. We should have Latitude in the Rows shelf
and Longitude in the Columns shelf. We see the Country field here,
but what should we do with it? This is where the Marks
shelf becomes important. With your mouse, click and
drag the Country field to the Marks shelf, and drop it exactly how I'm
doing it on the screen. I'm repeating it a few times just so that
you know what I'm doing in the process. The map should change colors. On my screen it's blue, but
it could depend on the computer and the display resolution. Having taken care of the Country field and
putting it where it belongs, let's click and drag the Mobile Phone
Usage field over to the Marks shelf and drop it over the Color button. You should see a change
to graduated colors. I want to take a moment to
explain what is happening when you add information
to the Marks shelf. The Mark shelf is the spot where you drag
fields to control properties like type, color, size, and shape. You can add the same field to another
button to get more information. If we take the field Mobile Phone Usage,
the same field I was doing with the color, click and drag it to the Label button and
drop it there, we'll get values. I mean, it's frankly pretty ugly and
not necessary so we could drag it away like this. However, the value of this is to actually be able to add more texture to your
information and to your visualization by using the same fields in different
ways to get different visualizations. So let's take a peek at
the attributes of one of the fields, specifically the Year field. Right-click and follow along. It looks like it ranges from 2000 to 2012. That's a really nice range. But at the moment what you see on
the screen is all of the years combined in an average. That doesn't make any sense intuitively or
otherwise. It's just plain wrong. So this is a good opportunity to
introduce what's called the filter. I want you to right-click
on the Year field. You see a bunch of choices we'll explore
over the time that we're together, but for now,
I want you to click on the Show Filter. Now on the right-hand side, the Year
shows up as a bunch of check marks. Just hover over the Filter
as you see on the screen. Click on the down arrow and
select Single value list. Now only one Year is shown at
a time unless you select All. You could then click on each of the years
to notice that the color shading changes as you click the years. My aim is to show you the workspace. However, as someone who does
visualizations for a living and has been doing it for a long time, I could tell you that there's some
issues with how this shading is done. There's something going on there, and
I would have to delve into it more. It will need to be fixed, but we're
not going to get into that right now. But maybe when the video is done,
you could always take a moment and see if you can fix the issues yourself,
because I think you could probably do it. I'd like to show you one more thing
in our survey of the workspace. It's really important,
it's called the Show Me button. Just click on that. It opens up a list of possible
other visualizations besides a map. I want you to click on the heat map,
which is in the top middle row. To show you some of the flexibility
with the Tableau workspace, I'm going to drag the Year field
away from the Filter, like so. Hmm, that's very interesting. I'm going to make the Columns and
Rows a bit bigger, so that it's a bit more visible. Next, I'm increasing the Size
of the boxes a bit, for a bit of an aesthetic improvement. Let's find the field called Regions. Let's right-click on that and
click on Show filter. Again, change the Filter to a list
as we did with Year previously. What you're seeing, as I'm going through
a very basic visualization, is each of the pieces of the Tableau workspace
get coordinated into a visualization. I started this visualization with a map,
but now it's not a map at all. I'm going to leave you with this. The purpose of this lesson is to
give you a short, but intense, look at the Tableau workspace. There's going to be some readings and links that will help you to learn
more about the Tableau workspace. But in doing so,
we went through some visualizations, and saw there are different ways
to show the same information. We'll be spending a lot of time
determining which way is better, but this should whet your appetite. In addition, as you noticed, it's often
easier to learn about the Tableau workspace, and
frankly any other type of program, by actually doing the thing
that you need to be doing. Whether in Tableau it's visualizations, or
in Python whether it's programming some cool new thing, doing it often
helps you to learn the program. It's frustrating at first, but
you'll actually be a stronger person, stronger programmer, stronger user
of the software after you're done. My colleague, Sikh Brar, will actually be
going through how to do the data preps. I'm not going to be doing that,
however I'm going to come back and actually discuss the context
of visualization. Funnily enough, you're actually
not going to be needing Tableau or any other software in that particular
section of the course, but it's going to be talking about the context,
which is actually extremely important. So stay tuned, and thank you so
much for joining me.