[MUSIC] We're going to continue our survey
of the Tableau workspace, so let's just get into it. The best way to learn an app or
software in general is to use it. So we'll go through the process
of doing some visualizations, that way we can have some of
the details in the Tableau work space. So first,
let's drag the longitude field to columns. Now let's drag the latitude
field to the rows. What you should see is an unfilled
map like you see on the screen here. There's a reason why I'm showing
a math visualization here. Longitude and latitude are used in
geography in the same way as rows and columns in data. Columns go up and down. Rows go left to right. How you place the data fields will
determine how the visualizations show up. It's not always intuitive at first. So I encourage you to mess around as
you're doing your own visualizations to ensure that you're getting the
visualizations in the way that you want and need. The nice thing about Tableau is that
there is the all important undo feature. In Windows you can use
the standard Ctrl+Z shortcut to go back to what you had before. But you can also click the left arrow
as I'm demonstrating on the screen. And often, because you're doing a lot
of manipulation with your mouse, using the left arrow is probably
what you're used to most. But just know that you do have
in Windows the Ctrl+Z option. When you place fields on a row or column shelf, it matters if the field
is a dimension or a measure. A dimension will be placed on a shelf
as is with Tableau splitting them into categories. With measures, Tableau will do
a calculation automatically. And add that based on any
dimensions that were added. Let's see an example. Click on the new worksheet button below. A new worksheet pops up. You can add unlimited numbers of
worksheets here to test different ways to do visualizations without messing up
the ones that you've already done. New worksheets are Intended to
illustrate different visualizations, different ways of looking at things, different types of experiments on
the data, just testing out things. That's what the different
worksheets are for. So feel free to have tons of worksheets
as you're going through and learning. Now, let's add a year to the row shelf by
dragging the years field over to rows. Then click on the development
folder if it's not all ready opened and
drag the GDP field to the columns Notice that for Years,
Tableau keeps the field as Years. That's because it's a dimension. But for the GDP field which is considered
a measure, Tableau calculates an average. In this case, an average is appropriate,
but it's not always the case. Sometimes Tableau might calculate a sum or
account. Tableau is trying to
interpret the data for you. Sometimes it gets it wrong,
sometimes it gets it right. You just have to make sure
that what it's doing is right. Otherwise, you can change it,
which I'll show you in a future video. Tableau shows the data as a line chart but
it looks really weird. How can we fix this? It's easy, we simply have to
click on the swap fills button. Watch carefully as I
press the swap button. The swap button allows me to easily fix
how the visualization is displayed. Now it's displayed in a way that's
similar to other line charts. There's so
much to learn in the Tableau workspace, so we're going to continue our exploration
of the workspace in the next video. My recommendation is to keep everything
the same and join me there immediately so that we can just continue our exploration. See you then.