[MUSIC] Welcome back! For the next three lessons, you'll
be doing some hands-on exploring and navigating through Tableau Public. You'll create a visualization
of mobile phone usage, and assess how different categories of data
behave as you input and change settings. I'd like to encourage you
to explore on your own and share what you discover as you work
your way through these lessons. We'll begin by explaining some very
important Tableau Public limitations that will directly affect how you manage
your files and protect data privacy. You'll then see how to use the helpful
describe feature to assess information. As you begin the following lesson, you'll start building a visualization
on mobile phone usage. You'll learn some specifics about shelves. I'll tell you about a quick and
easy way to use the undo feature. Then you'll get to modify data and illustrate different visualizations
on separate worksheets. Finally, in the last lesson,
you'll work with other important places on the Tableau Public workspace,
including control properties like type, color, size, and shape, and
the very important Show Me button. These lessons will be intense, hands on
explorations of the Tableau workspace. It may be frustrating at first, but you'll be a stronger user of
the software after you're done. So let's get started. First of all,
as I mentioned in the very first lesson, there are some notable
limitations with Tableau Public. The first significant limitation is that
you cannot save your file to your local computer. The reason, I suppose, from Tableau's perspective, is that they
want your visualization to be public. But from your perspective, it means
you cannot save your files offline and you must be connected in
some way to the Internet. If you're not connected
to the Internet and your computer crashes,
then you lose all unsaved changes. The other significant Tableau Public
limitation is that all of the data that you import into Tableau Public is
fully available for anyone to use. If you have any information that can
identify someone, it should be removed before importing into Tableau Public so
that the data are fully anonymous. When I talk more about data prep, I'll show you how to prepare your data in
Excel so that it is in fact anonymous. There are a couple of other limitations
that are less important to worry about, but still worth thinking about. One is that there are fewer ways to
connect the data in Tableau Public. Other Tableau versions
like Tableau Desktop can directly connect to virtually any
data source that you can think of. Tableau Public, however,
is limited just a few. It is free, after all. It doesn't really matter too much, because
it can connect to Microsoft Excel, and Excel can connect to almost anything. Sometimes it just takes an extra step,
but it is an extra step. Well, having gotten all
of that out the way, let's start looking at
some of the workspace. Let's use the map visualization
that we used earlier. The URL where it's located is
on the screen in front of you. Please pause the recording until you
have it so that it's easy to access. You should be on Sheet 1 with a bunch
of pictures of countries shown. First, let's drag the Country
field off the Rows shelf for now. On the left-hand side,
you'll see data in two categories, Dimensions and Measures. Dimensions help to categorize the data. Measures help to determine
the scale of a category. Next to each field,
you'll see either a hash sign, a paper clip, an ABC symbol,
a small globe, or a hash sign with an equal
sign in front of it. There are also folders. When you click on them like I'm
doing here, other fields show up. In this case,
there are mostly fields with hash signs. Let's look at an example. Let's look at the field called
Population Total in the Population folder. This field has a hash sign next to it. That means, plain and
simply, that it is a number. We also know that it's a number because
of where it's placed in the Tableau workspace. That is, it's a measure. But what else can we
learn about this field? Using your mouse,
right-click on the population total, scroll all the way down to where
it says Describe, and click. You'll see a lot of information here. For example, the role is what's
called a continuous measure. That means that the field
can take on any number. We also see in this box information about
where the data were originally sourced. Click on the Load button,
then scroll down. You'll see a summary of the data
ranges from about 18 or 19,000 to 1.3 billion. Now, click on Close. It's a good idea to do that for
other fields as well, and we're going to go through two more. Now let's go to one of the Dimensions,
and right click on Region. Click on Describe, then click on Load. We see that there are six
possible values that categorizes a country into
one of six possible regions. And that's what I was going to show you. So now you can click on Close. Let's look at one more. Right-click on Year, then click
on Describe and load the domain. We see that the data
are from 2000 to 2012. So this is a pretty good amount of
data that we're working with here. That's really great, because I'll be
using this data set to illustrate some of the cool things we can learn
from data through visualization, and having a large number of years
really helps in that regard. We'll continue our exploration of
the Tableau workspace in the next video.