[MUSIC] Welcome back. This lesson is going to walk you
through importing visualizations from Tableau Public's website into our version
Tableau Public that we previously installed on our computer. You can pull any visualization
from the Tableau Public website onto your computer version. Today we're going to download
the visualization that replicates John Snow's 1854 cholera study,
which I showed you in the first module. Let's dive in! This is a very well designed visualization
that combines a historical context of epidemiology and public health, with the
design principles needed to tell a story. It isn't an extremely difficult project,
from a statistical point of view, but much thought clearly went into
the original design in 1854. As well as the redesign
done very recently. The visualization is assembled as a story. For data people, a story is a way to
explain your data in a systematic way. This visualization starts with a
hypothesis that cholera isn't transmitted through the air as was
widely assumed in The 1800s. I want you to click on
the collecting the data tab in this visualization and you'll see the sort of schematic of the door to
door sampling that was done in 1854. Now, click on mapping the results. That's a tab there. It describes the process,
that you as a data visualization expert, after completing this specialization,
of course, and others go through in thinking through how best to show
the data to tell the right story. He showed all of the deaths from cholera,
and added the locations of the water
pumps in the neighborhood. Because of data visualization,
specifically, in this case, mapping, you can see in the tab labeled
Snow's Analysis Focus on Broad Street, that there is a pocket of
deaths around one water pump. This is an example of both the data driven
and as an actionable visualization. It's data driven because there are
specific elements of the location of wells and homes along with the number
of baths in each of the homes. It's actionable because Snow
could then take your irrefutable evidence and get the government to
immediately shut down the well. Let's now download this
into our own computer. Scroll down on the website and you'll see download on the bottom
right of the visualization. When you click download you
will get options that you see on the screen as well. Click on Tableau Workbook, then choose Tableau Public as the app
use to download the Workbook. Your computer will then
open Tableau Public and the visualization will be
displayed as shown on the screen. What you'll see, Is definitely not how it
looks on the web site, but it's more or less that way. That's because Tableau hasn't
opened the file for editing. On the left-hand side, you will see
a list of the Dashboards and Worksheets. If you double-click on, for example, Map of Outbreak, you will
see that particular visualization. Below that, you will see a section
labeled Navigator, and one labeled Story. Don't worry too much about these yet, we'll learn all about
them in a future lesson. Now I want you to click on
the Cholera Cases tab at the very bottom. This is called a worksheet and is where all your visualization
are first going to be created. Here you see what the author did. He use the geography field as the column
and row to represent latitude and longitude. Then he dragged the number of deaths
at address to both color and size to highlight larger
numbers of deaths. Finally I want you to click on the little
icon to the right of the dimensions text at the upper left area. It opens the Underlying data that's
used to illustrate the visualization. As you can see, there's latitude and longitude represented as decimals and
thus shows exactly the location, the spatial location,
where those dots are supposed to go. And there are other data fields,
including the number of deaths. That sort of illustrate the issue. Now, I want you to spend some
time navigating with the tabs and other aspects of the work space. Don't worry about messing
up the visualization. It won't be saved, so you can take
away the stuff and put it back in, add some other things if you want. You don't have to worry about
it messing up on the website. This is in your own computer. And this is just how, this is just
to get you to see how it's done. But in the next lesson we're going to go
through the specifics of the workspace. Again just please make
sure you go through, navigate some of these things
understand where it's coming from and then we're going to go through
the specifics of the workspace. I'll see you there, thanks.