[MUSIC] In the last lesson, I discussed the importance of
knowing the context of your data. It is so important that I didn't even
show you any data visualizations. I'm not going to show them
in this lesson either. Instead, I'll share with
you an example of how context affected a situation
in my professional experience. As I take you through the example, I want you to think of an example that's
relevant to your expertise or interest. I encourage you to share
your example with others. Let's get started. And my example is from higher education. Suppose that I'm in a university
assessment office, and the university just piloted a special
web-based summer session that helped give incoming freshmen the tools that they need
to succeed in introductory chemistry. What's the who here? There are several potential audiences for
the information. You can brainstorm on this as an exercise,
but I'll list out a few. The first might be
the chemistry department. They may want to know how
well the students performed after taking the pilot course. The second one would be the budget office. They will want to know
the value of the course, and if it received adequate funding. Also, they would want to know if the program needs to be
funded again next year. And three is, prospective students
might want to know if it's worth taking time to enroll in the summer
before they start college. As you can see from the example, the story you will need to tell to each
of these groups would be different. I'm only going to take one of these on,
that of the budget office, and see the what and the how. For the budget office, the what would be
to show that the program was a success and to provide the rationale to
continue to offer it at the same, decreased, or increased level of funding. How would you define success? There are a couple of ways to do so. You could survey participants
in the summer program. But perhaps a better way would be to
see if there's a difference between two groups, one that took the summer course
and the second group that did not. You can present this and
show that there is or isn't a difference. If there is a positive difference, then you could justify continued
funding for the program. Don't forget the non-supporting
data though. If you exclude that, then you will
be painting a one-sided story. Contextualize the non-supporting
data with the supporting data, so that decision makers have the full story. It may muddy the water, but it's better, because you build trust with your
audience and build a constituency in your company organization for
data driven decision making. What if there isn't a positive
difference in any measure? In other words, despite your
personal opinion of the session, if the data do not show that there
are some value in a program, then you still need to present the data
and base your recommendation on that data. There might be other more qualitative
reasons to continue funding the sessions, and you can marshal that separately. But the data must not be excluded just
because it doesn't support your argument. The final piece of the puzzle is what
Nancy Duarte, in her book Resonate, calls the big idea. The big idea has three pieces to it. One, it must articulate
a unique point of view. Two, it must convey the stakes. And three, it must be a complete sentence. That sounds super easy? Let's see if we can use this for
our puzzle. I'll give you a moment to think about
it in the context of our chemistry summer session. You might want to get out a sheet of
paper and pen, and just write it down. Now remember,
there isn't one right answer here. But what I would boil it down to is this. The pilot web-based summer chemistry
session was a success at improving outcomes for students who took
introductory chemistry in the fall. Therefore, we recommend continuing
to fund the program next year. It sounds really simple, but
is not something that's always intuitive. What can you come up with from
your own work experience? I'm going to leave you with a quote now. Blaise Pascal, who's one of the most
famous mathematicians in the world, once said, or supposedly once said, I would have written a shorter letter but
I didn't have the time. In other words, explaining something
clearly and concisely is not intuitive and not easy to do, but
it's absolutely necessary. Thanks, and see you next time.