[MUSIC] Welcome back,
this is the last lesson in this module. In the previous lessons I'd talked about
the importance of knowing the who, what, and how of your data. Now I will link data context to
visualization and story telling. What I'm going to do now
is provide an example for my own work experience and expertise. And I'd like to really get you to think
about one from your own expertise, work experience, or interest, as well, as we're going along to be able to get
the context of data visualization. And what I'm not going to do is actually
do a visualization on a computer. I'm going to do some pretend
visualizations on a sheet of paper. And to be able to illustrate how we can
set up the context to visualization so that we can get to the answer that
we need based on the question. And we're going to start
with simply talking about, probably the simplest formula and
data visualization which is, what is this context
that we're talking about? And the context is simply
the question that we need to answer, with the data, which gives us the story. Without the question,
all of the data that we have can't answer any actual questions. And without data,
we can't really get to how, or what, the information is that we're
seeking to develop a story. So you need both,
both are equally important. And usually in data visualization and
data analysis in general, we often will have data,
or we have a question. And we struggle sometimes to
be able to combine those two to really illustrate the story
that we are looking at, how do we get to this answer of this
question, with the data that we have. So it comes to now,
which is the issue, and this is really the issue that we
are struggling with at a university, which is often types of
questions that come up and higher ed, or
even in high school, or wherever. And education is,
how can we ensure that the students have success based on the courses
that they're taking. And so the issue here is,
for us in this example, is we are concerned about
the level of success that students who are taking introductory chemistry
are having in their other classes. So when we're framing that as the issue,
so I'm just going to write that on my sheet of paper here to
be able to illustrate this. Notice this is one sentence that's stating just one issue in the sentence. If you feel like there's a second issue,
or you need a second sentence, don't include it in the single issue
that we're talking about here. Having defined the issue we
want to actually be able to demonstrate that there
is in fact this issue. So we have a before, in this case,
and then we perhaps have a pilot web based course that allows us
to look at the data afterwards. So for example, let's say in 2014 there
was an introductory chemistry course, and we had a certain amount
of data with exams scores and a certain average exam score and
a distribution of these exam scores. We then initiated a pilot web based course
that allowed students who are coming in in the summer to be able to take this
course to be able to prepare them for introductory chemistry. And then in 2015 we look and
see if the exam scores are better about the same or
worse that before. But to demonstrate that we want to be
able to show you how it looks in 2014, before the introductory pilot
web based program is initiated. And here I want you to do
something sort of interesting, I would like you to actually think
about what type of visualization might illustrate this
particular piece of the puzzle. How are you going to show the people
who are making the decision? Some of the evidence about how well
students were doing in the summer, or in the course before
the pilot summer course. And the way we're going to do that is, we're going to actually just
draw a visualization, and we're not going to worry about if it'st he
right visualization, or if it meets best practices, which we are going to
talk about in a later course, etc. What I want to do is just think about,
okay, how would I want to describe and
show exam scores for this course? And the way I want to do it, and again, this is perhaps not the way
you are going to do it, is I am just going to draw a very
small graph here with exam scores, And I'm just going to draw
a simple histogram which shows the range of exam scores in 2014. In other words, how well students were
doing before the pilot was initiated. Yours may look quite different, this may
not even be the best way to show it, but I just wanted to illustrate
it to get a sense in my head. How I might be able to
describe the before the pilot. So given that we understand this as an
issue, which is the incoming students do not seem to be as prepared to succeed
in intro chemistry as we would like. What are some of the options
available to us? One of the options could be this
pilot web based summer program, which I have already spoken about,
and for purposes of the report, or presentation, or the story,
I would want to make sure that the reader or
the decision maker has the context of it. So for example, I would want to talk about how much this
web based pilot summer course would cost. I would want to describe what it does. For example, what's so
good about the web based content? What's the faculty interaction? All these things that,
questions that need to be answered about why we do these web based programs and
why it might be a good thing. And so we gathered that information up and present some other options
about what we could be doing. And so, having in fact done this pilot
summer web based course, we can then see, in fact if it made a difference next
year Holding everything else constant. And now, what we're going to do is we're going to take this little graph that I drew here and see the, how it looks before
the web based course and after the web based course. Here I've just simply overlayed
the 2015 exam scores. Which by the way I don't know
I'm just illustrating it just to show you how you might be
able to compare the 2014, the before, and the 2015 after results. And here I'm just showing you that there was a An increase
in the exam score so that might in fact mean that
we are in good shape here. That perhaps we need to have the pilot
web based course for another year. And we need to present that. We need to show that based on
All of these other issues with the cost etcetera is still
worth it to be able to do that. If it wasn't, we would want to recommend
that perhaps it's not worth it, it's what the data show and there are other
contexts that we may not be getting here. But at least, we can see that with
the data with the exam scores, at least we have a sense of one piece
of information that, it is working. So that we're going to have
a recommendation which is the pilot Study seems to show a success and so we're going to recommend that we
continue funding for another year. And this recommendation is based
solely on the data we provide, that we visualize,
that we set up through our study. There maybe other pieces of
information that the decision maker has that may not be based on data. It might be based on some other
factor that's outside of our control. And so they may not choose to actually
fund for another year but you could be assured by providing this data they'll
have another piece of information that they'll be able to use, in order to
ensure student success in this case or whatever it is that you are interested in. And so that is,
the key to doing data visualizations is to understand the context first. And if that means stepping away from your
computer and writing it out, then do it. Because if you don't understand the
context first, your data visualizations are not going to be as crisp,
concise and clear as they need to be. And we're going to go over this
particular thing in much more detail in further courses. But at lease you will have a sense of,
okay, let me just step back, let me write it out, let me sketch it out, maybe
outline it, and then get into the data. And so that is the key to
this particular lesson and the key to this course in fact. So, we'll see you next time.