[MUSIC] Welcome to our third lesson
within the charting module. In the first two lessons we focused
on understanding the various charts available for use within Tableau,
and how to customize our charts. In this lesson we will
cover dual access charts. After this lesson, you will be able to
create a dual access chart using Tableau, explain how to synchronize
axis in a dual axis chart. And discuss appropriate situation
in which to use a dual axis chart. Let's begin by discussing
a dual line chart. A dual line chart is also
referred to as a dual axis chart. It is an extension of the line
chart with one notable exception. It allows more than one measure
to be represented with two different access ranges. This is done by signing the right and left sides of the vertical
access with different measures. In this way,
you can compare two different measures. However, be careful with this. Even though you can use any
measure in this chart type, make sure that there is a meaningful
relationship between the two. In other words, keep in mind the story
you want to tell with your visualization. Using our Super Store data set, first let's begin by dragging our
Order Date mentioned to the Columns bar. Then, let's change the date to
show quarters instead of years. You do this by clicking on
the arrow on the Order Date field then choosing Quarter. Next, let's drag our Profit
measure on to the Row bar. Now we are able to see profit for
each quarter since 2011. Next, let's drag our Sales
measure onto the Row bar also. That way, we have a split graph showing
the profits for each quarter, and the total sales for
each quarter since 2011. To combine these charts,
let's click on our Show Me charts options. Then let's click on the dual line chart. Now our charts are combined, and
we can see the left vertical axis shows us profit, while the right
vertical axis shows us sales. The horizontal axis
shows us our order date. Now we can compare total profits and
total sales across quarters since 2011. If we want to take this one step further, we do have the option to
synchronize our axis. We can do this by right-clicking
on the right vertical axis and choosing Synchronize Axis. Now we can make the comparison between
the measures on the same scale. Remember that you still have all of
the options to customize your chart. We can click on either of
the charts in the marks card and make any changes to the colors,
shapes, or sizes that we want. That wraps up our lesson on creating
dual line charts in Tableau. After this lesson, you should now be able to create
a dual access chart using Tableau. Explain how to synchronize axis
in a dual access chart, and discuss the appropriate situation in
which to use a dual access chart. In part four of this module, we will
show how to use Tableau's tool tip and explain why it is important. Good luck.