[MUSIC] Welcome to this lesson in
the module on charting. I have put together some guidelines for
the various charts that tableau offers and ended up having to split
the lesson into several parts. This really is one large lesson. But before I introduce it,
let's review what we have learned so far. We've covered the different types
of charts available in tableau and how to change their colors,
shapes and sizes. We've also discussed how to
create dual layer charts and how to use a tableau tooltip. Now in this final set of videos, we will focus on some guidelines you
consider while creating your charts. After you finish this lessons, you will be
able to identify questions you should ask before choosing a chart type and determine
the purpose for your visualization and you will be able to select the best charts
to visualize what you're trying to say. There's a lot to cover,
so let's get started. The place you start is with questions. From the outset, ask yourself,
what am I trying to say? The single most important
step you can take to make a great visualization is to
know what you're trying to say. With the amount of data available today, anyone can get lost in a world
of scatter plots and geocoding. It is vital that your visualization has
a purpose and that you are selective about what you include in your
visualization to fulfill that purpose. How do you know if your
visualization has a purpose? Well, ask some questions to find out. Who is your audience? What questions do they have? What answers do you want to highlight for
them? What other questions might
your visualization inspire? What conversations may result? The point is that your viewers should take
something away from the time they spend with your visualization Your next order of business is to
choose the right chart type. Once you have a purpose for your
visualization in mind, it is time to think about what types of analysis will
help you achieve that purpose. You are looking to gain some
guidelines that will indicate when to use one kind of chart
type rather than another. Hopefully, these guidelines will
help you with these decisions. Choosing the right type of chart or graph
visualization can be key to conveying the most important insights
in your data on site. Let's revisit some of the charts
available in tableau and I will offer some guidelines or best practices
regarding when to use that type of chart. Let's start with the bar chart. Bar charts are one of the most
common ways to visualize data. Why? It's quick to compare information
revealing highs and lows at glance. Bar charts are especially effective when
you have numerical data that splits nicely into different categories, so you can
quickly see trends within your data. Here are guidelines for
when to use bar charts. When comparing data across categories. For example, when you are looking to show
volume of shirts in different sizes, website traffic by origination site or
percent of spending by department. Include multiple bar charts on dashboard. This helps the VR quickly compare
related information instead of flipping through a bunch of spreadsheet or
slides to answer a question. When adding color to bars,
it imparts more impact. Showing revenue performance
with bars is informative, but overlaying color to a profitability
provides immediate insight. When you can use stacked bars or
side by side bars. Displaying related data on top of or next
to each other gives depth to your analysis and addresses multiple questions at once. When you can combine bar charts with maps. Set the map to act as a filter. So when you click on different regions,
the corresponding bar chart is displayed and when you can
put bars on both sides of an axis. Plotting both positive and negative data points along a continuous
axis is an effective way to spot trends. Next, let's look at guidelines
regarding line charts. Line charts are right
up there with bars and pie charts as one of the most
frequently used chart types. Line charts connect individual
numeric data points. The result is a simple, straightforward
way to visualize a sequence of values. The primary use of a line chart is to
display trends over a span of time. Here are guidelines for
when to use line charts. When viewing trends and data over time. For example, to show how stock prices
change over a five-year period, displaying website page views during
a month or revenue growth by quarter. When you can combine a line
graph with bar charts. A bar chart indicating the volume sold
per day of a given stock combined with a line graph of the corresponding stock
price can provide visual queues for further investigation. When it makes sense to
shade the area underlines. When you have two or more line charts, fill the space under the respective
chart to create an area chart. This can inform a viewer about
the relative contribution that line contributes to the whole. Next, let's look at guidelines
regarding pie charts. Pie charts should be used to show relative
proportions or percentages of information. That's it. Despite this narrow recommendation for
when to use pies, they are made with abandon. As a result, they are the most
commonly misused chart type. If you're trying to compare data,
leave it to bars or stacked bars. Don't ask your viewer to translate
pie wedges into relevant data or compare one pie to another. Key points from your data will be missed
and the reader has to work too hard. Here are guidelines regarding pie charts. Use a pie chart when showing proportions. For example, percentage of
budget on different departments. Response categories from a survey or a breakdown of how Americans
spend their leisure time. Limit pie wedge to six. If you have more than six
proportions to communicate, consider a bar chart
instead of a pie chart. It becomes too hard to interpret
the pie pieces meaningfully when the number of wedges exceeds six. Consider overlaying pie charts on maps. Pies can be an interesting way
to highlight geographical trends in your data. If you choose to use this technique, use pies with only a couple of wedges
to keep it easy to understand.