[MUSIC] >> Next, let's look at
guidelines regarding treemaps. Are you looking to see
your data at a glance and discover how the different
pieces relate to the whole? Then treemaps are for you. These charts use a series of rectangles
nested within other rectangles to show hierarchical data as
a proportion to the whole. As the name of the chart suggests,
think of your data as related like a tree. Each branch is given a rectangle, which
represents how much data it compromises. Each rectangle is then sub-divided into
smaller rectangles or sub-branches again, based on its proportion to the whole. Through each rectangle size and color,
you can often see patterns across parts of your data, such as whether a particular
item is relevant, even across categories. They also make efficient use of space, allowing you to see your
entire data set at once. Here are guidelines regarding treemaps. Used to showing hierarchical
data as a proportion of a whole. For example, storage usage across
computer machines managing the number and priority of technical support cases or
comparing fiscal budgets between years. Consider coloring the rectangles by
a category different from how they are structured in the hierarchy. Consider combining
treemaps with bar charts. In Tableau,
place another dimension on rows so that each bar in a bar
chart is also a treemap. This lets you quickly compare items
through the bars length while allowing you to see the proportional
relationships within each bar. Next, let's look at guidelines
regarding box and whisker plots. Box and whisker plots, or box plots, are an important way
to show distributions of data. The name refers to the two
parts of the plot. The box, which contains the median
of the data along with the first and third quartiles, 25% grader and
less than the median. And the whiskers, which typically represents data within
1.5 times the inter-quartile range. The difference between the first and
third quartiles. The whiskers can also be
used to show the maximum and minimum points within the data. Here are guidelines regarding box and whisker plots used to show
the distribution of a set of data. For example,
understanding your data at a glance, seeing how data is skewed towards one end,
or identifying outliers in your data. Consider hiding the points within the box. This helps a viewer focus on the outliers. Consider comparing box plots
across categorical dimensions. Box plots are great, allowing you to compare distributions
between data sets quickly. Regardless of what type of chart you use,
it is vital to create effective views. Even if you have chosen the best
chart type or types for your analysis, effective views
do not always come naturally. Creating effective views requires effort,
intuition, and attention to detail. This comes by trial and error. Here are some general guidelines to
help you create effective views. Emphasize the most important data. Many chart types let you put multiple
measures and dimensions in one view. In scatter plots, for example,
you can put measures on the X or Y axis, as well as on the marks for
color, size, or shape. Choosing where to put each measure, depends on what kind of analysis you are
doing and what you're trying to emphasize. However, a good rule of thumb is to put
the most important data on the X or Y axis and less important data on color,
size, or shape. Orient your views for legibility. Rotate your charts and/or labels for
optimal legibility. Organize your views. Avoid overloading your views. Overloading a view is one of the most
common mistakes people make in data visualization. Instead of stacking countries,
departments, and profit into one condensed view,
break them down into small multiples. Then your user can better see and understand all of the relevant
information in seconds. Limit the number of colors and
shapes in a single view. Effective use of color and
shape can help us see and understand patterns more easily. However, too many colors and shapes in
one view usually defeats that purpose. That concludes our consideration of
guidelines to help you choose appropriate chart for your needs. After this lesson, you should now be able
to identify questions you should ask before choosing a chart type. Determine the purpose for
your visualization. Recall guidelines to help you
choose appropriate chart types. And select the best charts to
visualize what you're trying to say. Before moving on to the next module,
Tableau dates, I would highly recommend practicing everything you
have learned in this module. Understanding when to use
different types of charts. How to customize your chart. And how do best utilize different chart
features is extremely important in helping to explore and explain your data. Any practice you devote to it will
pay off in greater effectiveness and providing greater clarity and
meaning for your users.