[MUSIC] Next, let's look at guidelines
regarding histogram charts. Use histograms when you want to see how
your data are distributed across groups. Say, for example, that you got hundred
pumpkins and you want to know how many weigh two pounds or less, three to
five pounds, six to ten pounds, etc. By grouping your data
into these categories and then plotting them with
vertical bars along an access. You will see the distribution of your
pumpkins according to weight and in the process you've created a histogram. At times, you won't necessarily
know which categorization approach makes sense for your data. You can use histograms to try different
approaches to make sure you create groups that are balanced in size and
relevant for your analysis. Here are guidelines regarding histograms. Use histograms to understand
the distribution of your data. For example, to display the number
of customers by company size, student performances on an exam,
or frequency of a product defect. Use histograms to test
different groupings of data. When you are exploring your data and
looking for groupings or bins that makes sense. Creating a variety of histograms can help
you determine the most useful sets data. Add a filter, by offering a way for the viewer to drill down into
different categories of data. The histogram becomes a useful tool
to explore many data views quickly. Next, let's look at guidelines
regarding bullet charts. When you have a goal and want to track progress against it,
bullet charts are for you. At its heart, a bullet graph
is a variation of a bar chart. It was designed to replace dashboard
gauges, meters, and thermometers. Why? Because those images typically don't
display sufficient information and require valuable dashboard real estate. Here are guidelines
regarding bullet charts. Use when evaluating performance
of a metric against a goal. For example, sales quota assessment,
actual spending versus budget, or performance spectrum,
comparing great, good, and poor. Use color in a bullet chart to
illustrate achievement thresholds, including color such as red, yellow,
green as a backdrop to the primary measure lets a viewer quickly understand how
performance measures against goals. Add bullets to dashboards for
summary insights. Combining bullets with other chart types
into a dashboard, supports productive discussions about where attention
is needed to accomplish objectives. Next, let’s look at guidelines
regarding heatmaps. Heatmaps are a great way to compare
data across two categories using color. The effect is to quickly see where
the intersection of the categories is strongest and weakest. Here are guidelines regarding heatmaps. We use heatmaps to show
the relationship between two factors. For example,
segmentation analysis of target market, product adoption across regions, or sales
leads by individual sales representatives. Vary the size of squares, by adding
a size variation for your squares, heat maps let you know the concentration
of two intersecting factors but at a third element. For example, a heatmap could reveal
a survey respondents, sports activity preference, and the frequency with which
they attend the event based on color. While the size of the square could
reflect the number of respondents in that category. Using something other than squares. When using a heatmap, there are times when
other types of marks help convey your data in a more impactful way. Next, let's look at guidelines
regarding highlight tables. Highlight tables take
heatmaps one step further. In addition to showing how data
intersects by using color, highlight tables add a number on
top to provide additional detail. Here are guidelines
regarding highlight tables. Use to provide detailed
information on heatmaps. For example, the percent of a market for
different segments, sales numbers by representatives in a particular region, or
population of cities in different years. Combine highlight tables
with other chart types. Combining a line chart with
a highlight table, for example, lets the viewer understand overall trends
as well as quickly drill down into a specific cross-sectional data.