[MUSIC] Next, let's look at
guidelines regarding maps. When you have any kind of location
data whether it's postal codes, state abbreviations, country names or
your own custom geo coding. You've got to see your data on a map. You wouldn't leave home to find
a new restaurant without a map or GPS anyway, would you? So demand the same informative
view from your data visualization. Here are guidelines regarding
maps showing geocoded data. For example use maps to show
insurance claims by state, product export destinations by country,
car accidents by zip code. Or custom sales territories. Use maps as a filter for further
types of charts, graphs, and tables. Combine a map with other relevant data. Then use it as a filter to
drill into your data for robust investigation and discussion. Layer bubble charts on top of maps. Bubble charts represent the concentration
of data and their varied sizes, a quick way to understand lots of data. By layering bubbles on top of the map it
is easy to interpret the geographical impact of different data points quickly. Next, let's look at guidelines
regarding a scatter plot. Looking to dig a little deeper into
some data, but no quite sure of how, or if, different pieces
of information relate? Scatter plots are an effective way
to give you a quick sense of trends. Concentrations and
outliers that will direct you to where you want to focus your
investigation efforts further. Here are guidelines
regarding scatter plots. Use a scatter plot when investigating the
relationship between different variables. For example, male versus female likelihood
of having lung cancer at different ages or purchase patterns of smartphones by
technology earlier adapters and lighters or skipping shipping costs of different
product categories to different regions. Consider adding a trend line,
or line of best fit. By adding a trend line, the correlation among your data
becomes more clearly defined. Incorporate filters. By adding filters to your scatter plots,
you can drill down into different views and details
quickly to identify patterns in your data. Use informative mark types, the story behind some data can be
enhanced with the relevant shape. Next let's look at guidelines
regarding a Gantt chart. Gantt charts excel,
at illustrating the start and finish dates of elements of a project. Hitting deadlines is paramount
to a project's success, seeing what needs to be accomplished. And by when is essential
to making this happen. This is where a Gantt chart comes in. While most people associate Gantt charts
with project management, they can be used to understand how other things such
as people or machines vary over time. For example, you could use a Gantt
chart to do resource planning. Or to see how long it took people
to hit specific milestones, such as a certification level. And how that activity was
distributed over time. Here are guidelines
regarding Gantt charts. Use a Gantt chart when displaying
a product schedule, for example, when illustrating
key deliverables, owners, and deadlines, showing other
things in use over time, for example, duration of a machine's use,
or availability of players on a team. When adding color, changing the color of
the bars within the Gantt chart quickly informs viewers about key
aspects of the variable. Combine maps and
other chart types with Gantt charts. Including Gantt charts in a dashboard with
other chart types allows filtering and allows you to drill down to
expand the insight provided. Next, let's look at guidelines
according bubble charts. Bubbles are not their own type
of visualization but instead, should be viewed as a technique tool that
accentuate data on scatter plots or maps. People are drawn to using bubble maps
because the varied sizes of circles fights meaning about the data. Here are guidelines
regarding bubble charts. Used when showing the concentration
of data along two axis. For example, sales concentration
by product and geography or a class attendance by department and
time of day. Use bubbles to accentuate
data on scatter plots. By varying the size and color of data
points, a scatter plot can be transformed into a rich visualization that
answers many questions at once. Overlay bubbles on maps. Bubbles quickly inform a viewer about
relative concentration of data. Using these as an overlay on a map
puts geographically related data in context quickly and
effectively for a viewer.