[MUSIC] Welcome back. In the last lesson, we discussed how to connect two primary
sources of data within Tableau. In this lesson, I will define the two
primary types of connections for Tableau. A live connection and a data extract. Let's get started. A live data connection means that Tableau
sends queries to your underlying database and retrieves up to date data whenever
the Tableau dashboard is updated. A live data connection is best and
should be used when the live connection between the Tableau dashboard and
your data is possible. Sometimes your data maybe
stored on a server and a live connection is not permitted. And when the connection is not slow. Sometimes a live data connection becomes
very slow when the data is not stored locally on your own computer or when
the size of the data files is very large. The other type is a Tableau
data extract connection. Which means that Tableau sends queries
to your extracted or static database and not the underlying data. Any updates to the underlying database
will not update the Tableau dashboard. You will have to refresh the Tableau
extract to get the up-to-date data. TDE should be used when a live
connection to your data is not possible, when the live data connection is too slow,
or in such cases where the size of
the data is extremely large. In general, TDE should be used when your
data is located on your own computer, a real data feed to your
dashboard is not needed and when the data size is sufficiently large. For more information on when to use a live
connection versus a Tableau data extract, please visit the resources section. So when should you use a live connection
versus a Tableau data extract. Well, it depends. A Tableau data extract is recommended
when your database is too slow for interactive analytics or
when you need to be offline and will not always have an internet or
network connection to your data. A live connection is recommended
when you have a fast database or when you need up to the minute data. If you would like additional resources on
the material that we've covered in this lesson, please visit the links below. The Tableau website provide very helpful
instruction videos including introduction to working with the Tableau Public
interface, connecting to data, preparing your data for import,
different types of data connections etc. Now that you have prepared your data for
import and have connected to different types of data, in the next lesson we will
prepare your data for Tableau Public.