[MUSIC] Welcome back, in the last lesson, we discussed the types of data that
Tableau Public can and cannot connect to. In this lesson, we will use Tableau Public
to connect to multiple data sources and merge different data tables together,
using different types of joins. When your data is located in two or more data sources, such as multiple
sheets from an Excel workbook or multiple files from different sources, you
will need to merge or join the data sets together through specific fields to
access data from all of the data sets. With Tableau,
you can use multiple data sources for a single worksheet by
joining multiple tables. One data source is primary,
while all others are secondary. While there are no set requirements for
which data set should be primary versus secondary, I recommend making the data
source with the majority of the data you will be working with
the primary data source. For the primary data source, Tableau selects a data source of
the first field you add to the worksheet. The primary data source creates
relationships with fields of the same name and data type that it finds
in the other data sources. If you have the same variable in two or
more databases, make sure the variable name and data type are exactly
the same across all data sources. Otherwise, Tableau will not be able to
recognize that the variables are the same across all data sources. You will first want to connect to your
data and create your data source, or data sources, as we discussed in
the other lessons of this module. After you select the database,
double-click or drag a table to the join area
of the data source page. Then double-click or
drag another table to the same join area. Tableau will join the data sources
together by finding similar data fields in all sources. Before we continue, let's take a moment
to discuss the different types of joins. There are a few different types of
joins that Tableau will provide. An inner join, left join,
right join, or a full outer join. Let's talk about each one of these and
how or why you would use them. An inner join will show the records or
rows present in both tables, if there is at least one
match between columns. You will always use an inner join when you
want to display all of the data that is stored in both of the data sources,
using a merging variable. A left join returns all of the records or
rows present in the left table and matching rows from the right table. You would use a left join when you want to
keep all of the data in the left table and only merge in limited data
from the table on the right. A right join returns all of the records or
rows present in the right table and matching rows from the left table. You would use a right join when
you want to keep all of the data in the right table and only merge in
limited data from the table on the left. A full outer join were shown all of the
records or rows present in both left and the right table. You will use a full outer join when you
wanted display all of the data that is stored within all of
the tables If the data joined, chosen by Tableau,
is not the join you wanted, you can simply click on the join
to open the join dialog box. Add one or more join conditions
by selecting a field from one of the available tables
used in the data source, a join operator and
a field from the added table. Inspect the join condition to
make sure it reflects how you want to connect the tables. When finished, click the X icon
to close the join dialogue box. You can delete an unwanted join condition
by clicking the red X that displays when you hover over the right
side of the condition. When you have joined tables
in your data source, the data pane is automatically organized
to use a group by table command. You can turn this feature off, or
change how the data pane is sorted, by selecting one of the sort by
options on the data pane menu. This option is only available if you
have connected to the database live. If you have imported the data,
the fields are no longer grouped by table. For additional information on merging
multiple data sources together, please visit the resources section.