[MUSIC] In the last lesson, I discussed with you
the various types of visualizations. Tables, bar charts, line graphs,
maps, pie charts, and scatter plots. For this lesson, you will follow along and create some examples of the more
popular of these visualizations. We're going to use the sales super store
dataset that you already connected to in course one. If you weren't with us for course one, check the resources to
see how to connect to this data. Okay, let's get started. [MUSIC] Before we begin I just
want to say one caveat, and that is we're not necessarily going
to be showing you the best, and I'm using air quotes,
the best way to do visualization. I'm just illustrating the types
of visualizations you can do to really wet your feet. And actually that will help bend in some
ways to help you decide what is the best visualization. But I'm not going to talk
about which is the best for the particular one in
this particular lesson. We'll be using
Tableau Public version 10.0. That's the latest version of tableau, so if you've just downloaded it in
the past few weeks it's not a problem. Otherwise, you can use other versions, but that's the one that we'll be using for
this lesson. Let's open the Sales Super Store Dataset. Make sure, that if it's not
available on your tableau instants, that you actually open it from the path
on your computer where you saved it. So the path that I'm going to go to is
not necessarily, are definitely won't be frankly the path where you have your
version of the sales supper store dataset. So when you're following
along just keep that in mind. Go to connect to a File,
and click on Excel. Then open the Sale Superstore dataset, you will see the tab marked data
source below, that means you know that it's been successfully
imported into your tablet instance. Now I want you to drag the order
sheet like I'm doing here to where it says Drag sheets here,
I'm just going to do it again with my mouse just to
show you what's going on here. Tableau well then think about for a few seconds depending on
the speed of your computer, and once it's done
please click on Sheet 1. For our first example,
we're going to start with the table, also known as a cross tab or
a cross tabulation. Now I often use these terms
interchangeably, even though I shouldn't. And I apologize now if I
keep interchanging them. So if you hear cross tab or
cross tabulation, I mean table, sorry. Okay, let's do this. Let's drag the category field to the rows. The measure names to columns, and the measure values get dropped
in as values, this quickly and efficiently summarizes all of
the measure fields that you see here, in terms of the categories and
the dataset. Now I'm just going to throw
in the subcategory field. So that I can get even more detail and
here it is. It's immediately evident that it
is already too overwhelming for a big PowerPoint presentation,
especially a public presentation or something that you're doing for
a big audience. And that's fundamentally
the major drawback of a table. It's just not very good
in a big presentation. And it's likely there will
be a better way to focus the attention towards
the data of interest. However, the table is best used when there
is a mixed audience that will need to view your visualization. Each member of the audience might be
interested in the specific row or specific set of data. Also there is specific or
different units of measurements and it sometimes easier to show it in a table. Just because it might look boring or
plain, doesn't mean it's not an important mode for communicating results even
in a sort of cutting edge way. It is just as cutting edge,
and more importantly, just as crucial as any other
type of visualization. So, please, please, please,
don't underestimate it's power or purpose in data visualization. One final point on crosstabs, nothing
compares to showing tables in an appendix, just in case people are curious
as to the underlying data. It's really helpful for people who do
like, they delve into the details. And it's appropriate especially if
you're doing some sort of a fixed type of report,
a paper report that people print off. What we have on the screen naturally lends
us of to the next type of visualization which is what I call and
what most people call the heat map. You can think of the heat map as part of
the family of tables or cross tabulations but I like to think of heat maps as
a super tabled, or a souped up table. In other words, it's one that uses our
sense of color and our sense of how we can focus the eye on different types
of colors in our presentation. All I'm going to do here is to take
out everything but the profits, then use the Show Me button, which is on
the upper right hand corner of the screen, the Show Me button, and
click on the highlight table. Not the heat map. Why? Because for whatever reason, tableau makes a distinction between
a heat map and a highlight table. Virtually everyone calls a heat map what
tableau refers to as a highlight table. So just remember that if you choose
this different visualization tool, and so the idea is that you want
to have the highlight table. So click on the highlight table and then you'll see what I am showing
you in front of your screen as well. What we can see here is that
the losses are immediately evident, as are the most profitable products. You can see why I say
it's a souped up table. And while the tables and heat maps, give
us a lot of information as you can see. Humans are naturally drawn
to even more visual things. So that means we really
need to be able to see and understand the information
in a graph of some sort. Which is why I'm going to now illustrate
the most important visualization of all, the bar chart. And you noticed I said the most
important visualization, and that's because it's widely used. We tend to look down upon bar charts
because they are so widely used, but they're essential and their use can
illuminate ideas very effectively. So now I want you to
click on the Show Me tab, again it's on the upper right hand side,
as you can see, where you see my mouse. And I want you to click on the bar graph,
wow, even better is when I go ahead and drag the profit measure to color to
show very quickly the furniture, especially the bookcases and
tables are loosing money. That wasn't as evident when viewing
the stuff before, even with the heat map. There are different
varieties of bar charts. For example, when I click on the Show Me
tab and then click on the stacked bars. Right here we can see
something really cool. That the total profit by
category is highest for technology, and lowest for furniture. It wasn't evident before,
but this makes it really clear that there's definitely
a lot more profit in technology. And you can see kind of
what's happening here. Now I want to show you a scatter plot and
this is to see if there's any trends or relationships that we can't see yet. For this we need two measures. So let's take category off the sheet and
add discount. Ugh, my goodness,
there must be something wrong, why? We only see one dot,
that makes no sense, right? Yes, it makes no sense. So we need to do something else that isn't
intuitive and not always easy to find in tableau, so please try to remember
this when you're doing it on your own. Please go to the Analysis
menu option above. Does your computer or does your screen have the aggregate
measures option checked? Just click it and voila. The reason we unchecked the aggregate
measures here is because we're not wanting to show a summary of the data,
but in fact, we want to see each data point in order
to determine whether there's a trend between each and
every single data point at a given item. But of course, now the scattered
plot is actually disaggregated and we still really want to be able to
illustrate things in an aggregated way to allow our eyes to focus on one thing. So for a scatter plot of this sort,
a trend line is almost always what will be used, so let's do that, click on the
Analytics tab over on the left hand side. So just follow where my mouse is
going all the way to the left, and you'll see there's an Analytics tab. I want you to click on that. Drag the trend line to the linear model. We're picking the linear model
because it's the easiest to interpret. Basically, just a straight
relationship between the two axis. So we see a line that shows a weak
negative correlation between discount and profit. The implication here is that
the deeper the discount the less profitable the sales were. It's very interesting insight actually,
it shows that there is a point at which giving discounts may sell more but
it's at the cost of profits, and if you're in a for-profit business,
profits are what it's all about, right? All right, so I can go on forever
because this stuff is just so fun, just seeing the different
types of visualizations, but I just wanted to give you an overview
of the main types of charts and graphs. We'll be delving into how to choose
the right graph or chart in the very next lesson, so this lesson goes very
much hand-in-hand with that one. So we want to make sure that you
just leave everything on the screen. Just go to next lesson. We'll continue our exploration of data and
visualization. See you then.