[MUSIC] Hello, and welcome to
Essential Design Principles for Tableau, I'm Govind Acharya, and
thank you for joining me and my colleague Hunter Whitney for the second
course in the data visualization specialization from UC Davis. For those of you who may not know me,
I'm a principal analyst for UC Davis. I have over a decade of experience in data
analytics, statistics, survey research, and visualization across several
disciplines including higher education, economics, urban planning,
human rights and development. Creating effective visualizations
is both an art and a science. In the first module,
Hunter will present a couple of lessons on how the human brain was built for
visualizations. This will help provide context for
the rest of the course. Also in the first module,
you will identify and be able to create the different types
of visualizations available in Tableau. You will examine the role ethics
plays when creating visualizations. And you will learn how to improve
ineffective visuals by applying some basic tips. In the second module you will discuss
the concepts of cognitive load, and the principles of visual perception. You will be able to apply
strategic uses for contrast, and illustrate pre-attentive attributes
like color to your visualizations. You will learn how to
declutter your visuals, to ensure you are presenting
only the necessary information. Now, in module three,
I've included two sections, design best practices, and
design and exploratory analysis. In the first section we revisit some
of the concepts introduced in Module 2. You will learn how to apply
Gestalt Principles, and how to leverage pre-attentive
attributes in your visualizations. You will examine the role of
accessibility and aesthetics, and how it plays into your creations. In the second section we define the ideas
of exploratory and explanatory analysis. You will be able to normalize
your data and identify outliers. We will dive into a fun but
challenging concept on how to construct a control chart to set you up to perform
more advanced exploratory analysis. For the final module,
I will let my colleague, Hunter Whitney, introduce himself and explain what you
will learn in that module with him. Take it away Hunter. >> Thank you, Govind. Hello everyone, and
thank you for joining us. I'm Hunter Whitney, and for more than
15 years, I've been an information, interaction and user experience designer. So that's the perspective I
bring to data visualization. My primary areas of interest are health,
the life sciences and cyber security. Because these are very data-intensive
fields, I am interested in how to design effective application and interfaces with
a more human-centered design approach. In the first module, I'll be laying
out some foundational concepts for data visualization design. Focusing on the perceptual side of things. Then, in the last module,
we're going to shift gears a bit. We'll move beyond perception and
dive into how to design for understanding. That is, putting all of these elements
together so that the audience interprets the visual as intended, and
that the visualization addresses the need. Data visualization is both an art and
a science, and to give a good user experience
you need to master both. Anyway, I'm excited to be part of
this course, and I will see you soon. Back to you Govind. >> Thanks Hunter. As you can see,
we have a lot to cover in this course. We're excited to get started, so
without further delay, let's begin. [MUSIC]