[MUSIC] Hello, as I mentioned in the last lesson,
figuring out which visualization is the right one for
your data can be challenging. For this lesson, we will discuss the types
of visualizations that are available to you and you will be able to recognize and identify them when you start
to do your own visualizations. Let's get started. The first visualization I want to discuss
is just a simple text visualization and sometimes that one number is really
all you need, as a visualization. It's very effective if what you're trying
to show is something very high-level as part of an overall dashboard package, as
we're going to get into in future courses. This simple text conveys exactly what you
need and has the information all contained with it, and is quite widely used as
a KPI or key performance indicator. The next visualization also
uses a lot of numbers and a lot text, and that is a table. A table is a very effective way
to convey a lot of information. A two by two table has a lot of power
in terms of what it can convey and in terms of looking at
comparisons across categories. If it becomes too big,
it is much less effective, but a two by two table is perfect for almost
any need if you can get it to that point. The next example is a sort of
colorful version of a table, it's called a heat map. It takes information that
you have in a table and then colors it based on
a certain set of parameters. For example, it can identify
the top N in some category or the bottom of some category,
depending on what you need. Now, moving onto our next example. If you have a lot of information and it's
in a forum that's sort of a continuous variable and we talked about that in the
first lesson, which is data could take on any number and you're comparing
them with another set of numbers. The best way to do that is
through a scatter plot to see if there's any inferences that you
can draw in the relationships or the correlations between
the two variables. You plot them on an x and y-axis,
and see if there's some sort of connection between the two or
perhaps there's some sort of clustering that you can find relationships with
when you're drawing a scatter plot. The line graph is our next example and
this is a very effective visualization. It is used quite extensively when
visualizing data across time. So if you have any time variable,
one of the first things you ought to do i s to do a simple line graph and see how
well you can see if there's a trend, perhaps you can get into some forecasting
to see really where the data may be headed in the future things like that can
very easily be done with a line graph. Another popular visualization
is one with many flavors. It is called the bar graph. You have either vertical bars or
horizontal bars. They are really two similar things. Oftentimes, it is based on how much
information you are trying to convey as to whether you put it in. Horizontal or vertical form. You also have the stacked version of
a bar graph, which allows you to see clearly if one category is
substantially bigger than the other. It's nice to be able to display that and
show that in a stacked format. There's also some fancier versions of a
bar graph, such as the waterfall graph or some other types of bar graphs which
allow you to really be able to quickly see the areas and to be able to
answer questions very quickly and easily. Bar graphs are fundamental
to visualization. It's the most widely used and
it's the most useful. I can say that definitively. Bar graphs are the most useful and
you'll be using them a lot. I will use them a lot in this course. And last but not least, a very
important visualization is the map and that is very crucial when
doing spatial analysis. Any type of visualization that
includes a spatial component. Anything that has geography,
anything that has latitude and longitude, it really should be displayed on
a map to be able to ascertain if there's really interesting insights
you can uncover from spatial analysis. And if you're really
interested in learning further in this part of visualization,
my colleague, Nicholas Santos has created
a specialization in just this area alone. It's called geographic information
systems using arch GIS. I've listed his intro
course in your links. There are so many types of
visualizations that we discussed, but there's also many more types that I
haven't brought up including popular ones. It didn't bring them up before, because they're not really recommended
in a best practices format. The one that's most notable, which I'm
going to show here is the pie chart. The pie chart can actually
be useful at times, but it gets a bit of a bad representation
in the visualization world. The tendency as a result is that
people who want to really follow best practices in visualizations tend to
avoid the pie chart unless there's some very specific need for it. I've actually included a couple
of readings that delves into the debate about whether or
not we should use pie charts at all. We'll stop here. And for the next lesson, we'll do a few of these visualizations
using our tableau instance. I'll see you there.