[MUSIC] Welcome back. In the last lesson, we saw how a basic
awareness of our brain's strengths and limitations can be a useful part
of the visualizers toolkit. This approach extends beyond pop-out
effects to higher order considerations. As a data visualization designer, you need
to think about using design elements to help people both perceive and
to think about data. So in this lesson, we'll consider two
fundamental systems of the brain that will have a bearing on design. Let's get started. Hi, in a previous lesson, we briefly touch
in how visual encoding provides basic building blocks from making data more
immediately perceptible to people, but perception is only part of the story. As a data visualization designer, you should also consider how your
designs can help people make clear, accurate interpretations and gain
useful insights based on what they see. Nobel prize winning psychologist Daniel
Kahneman suggested that there are two fundamental systems that drive
how we think and make judgments. As a data visualization designer,
your job is to leverage both of them. The first system involves
more automatic and immediate perception, such as noticing an
unusual pattern of movement in the bushes. This is where visual encoding and
things like Gestalt Principles which will be touched on
a future lesson come into play. The second system above slower and
more deliberate cognition. That is thinking about the meaning
of certain sensory cues. What interpretations and questions should
arise from a particular visual pattern. For instance, an analyst might immediately
notice a single dot sitting alone but nearby to a cluster of other
dots in a scatter plot. That's system 1. If the analysts spent a few moments
considering a bad data as a meaningful outlier with further investigation,
that would be system two. Confronting a large set of
multidimensional data can be overwhelming for any of us. Your task is to create a way
to encode that data so that they can be put together like letters
into words or like Lego bricks into meaningful patterns that work with both or
perceptual and cognitive systems. Making good choices for
combining various visual encoding options. For effect, the visualizations
is both an art and a science. Here's a simple example using color and
shape. Now you may find that color pops out more
than shape but the combination of the two encoding options allows for a more
detailed story to emerge from the pattern. How much more can be added to show
even more informational depth without overloading the viewer and
obscuring the meaning, well those are going to be decisions
you going to need to make. In a trade off of speed versus accuracy
of perception speed often wins, for the reasons noted earlier in this lesson. In the case of the unknown
movement in the bushes, the value of instant action
outweighed accuracy. From a survival point of view,
it was better to react quickly even if there are many false
alarms in the process. The brain relies on some shortcuts and
assumptions to help make our perception rapid, and
that's a key to good data visualizations. But some of the same mental shortcuts can
also create false interpretations and provide challenges and present
challenges for visualization designs. For example, do you see the gradient in that gray bar
in the middle of the larger gray box? In fact, there isn't a gradient, but
you immediately perceive it as having a gradient because of
the background context. Even if you know it's not there,
you've probably can't help but see that gradient anyway. That's just how your brain works. As designers, you should be aware of
what effect your design decisions what might have on users' perceptions and
their resulting interpretations. As we have seen, data visualization
is as much about the brain and how it works as it is about colors,
lines and shapes. In later lessons, we will explore
design strategies that draw from working with systems one and two. As you go through the rest of this course,
please keep these ideas in the back of your mind as they will lead you down
the path of good design principles for visualization. Until next time.