[MUSIC] Okay, I want to state that this is by for
the most important lesson in the course, and indeed throughout the specialization. It's about practicing data
visualization with ethics. Or as Merriam-Webster's
dictionary defines ethics, rules of behavior based on ideas
about what is morally good and bad. Ethics and best practices go hand in hand,
but they are distinct. You could have perfectly excellent ethics
but poorly designed visualizations. You could also have really
good design practices but aren't conveying information
in an ethical way. What we want to accomplish is to
be able to do both, be ethical and practice effective design practices. There are a few more readings
that go along with this lesson. Because there's always a debate about what
the best practices are for visualizations. However, there is less debate
about the importance of ethics. Although there are some debates around
where the line should be drawn. For this lesson,
we will examine a few case studies, so that you can see the role ethics
can play in data visualization. I'm going to start this lesson
with a graph from a news broadcast that occurred in the United States. We'll call them Nosy News for
purposes of this example. Nosy News has a particular point of view
and that is reflected in this graph. It shows a standard bar chart. Bar charts or bar graphs,
as I will often say, are very easy for us to use because our eyes tend to
compare the endpoints of the bars. So I redid this graph in Excel, and
also did one with a zero baseline. So the issue here is that Nosy News'
graph has a non-zero baseline and it starts at the bottom. The traditional type of graph
always starts with a zero baseline. So right there the graph
is already skewed, and the reason is that it's a standard. You start with zero and
go up the graph, and that's just the standard that
has been adopted over time. And so that's a very important
component when you're doing a bar graph is start at zero. So that people are able to
compare from that baseline, and don't try to change
the baseline on people. Because they'll get either confused or
annoyed that you changed the baseline. So if you look at just the axis
on the left, the vertical axis, you'll see that the Nosy News' graph
starts at 34, so that's the bottom number, and goes up to 42% or
just a 8% difference between the two. Whereas if you look at the 0 baseline,
the one I did, it starts at 0 and goes up to 40. Now think about why that's important. And I'm going to show you by doing
a quick bit of math right now. Now let's do a quick bit of math. I'm going to I have this
formula up on the screen so that you can see the process
by which I'm going here. And this is a standard way
to just check your work. I want to do just a quick bit of math. So I wanted you to take the bottom
of the scale in each graph. So in the Non Baseline graph, it's 34,
and in the Zero Baseline, it is 0. And I want you to subtract it
from the graph percentage. For now, it's 1 and 35, so for the column on the left it's 1 on the non-zero
baseline and 35 on the zero baseline. You do that as well for
the January 1, 2013, so for the non-0 baseline, it is 5.6. And for the zero baseline it is 39.6. Then you take the difference between them,
and you can see what's on the screen here. What we get is that
the non-baseline visual increase implies that the tax would rise by 460%. Instead of 13% as reflected both in
the zero baseline graph and in reality. So, although it's still
a 13% increase in taxes, it is reflected correctly in
the zero baseline graph and is misleading to graph it to
seem like it's a 460% increase. The way Nosy News portrayed it to their
audience is misleading to graph and made it seem like it's
a 460% increase in taxes. Nosy News might argue that they
are not being unethical at all by changing the scale to bar graph. Rather they are merely trying to reinforce
the point that they're trying to make. The problem is is that it is misleading
and your credibility will go out the window when you see issues
with the graph like we just did. I want to share another example. This is a look at the data from gun deaths after Florida enacted a law that
permit a gun owners to shoot someone anywhere if the gun owner feels
that deadly force is needed. If you look at it really
quickly this graph, you'd assume as most do
when you look at it. That there must have been a sharp decrease
in gun deaths since the enactment of the law. But in fact it's the opposite. So you have to check out
the axis on the left, the y-axis. 0 is at the top, and 1,000 is at
the bottom, which is the opposite of the way we do graphs, where 0's at
the bottom, and 1,000 would be at the top. So, in fact, there was a very large increase in
gun deaths after law was enacted. The thing is, that inverting
the axis is very misleading, and it is, frankly I think, unethical. Because the average consumer
of that information, which is likely a newspaper reader or
it could be an infographic in a TV show. The average consumer of that information should not have to deviate from
the traditional way of displaying graphs. If there is a deviation it should be
made clear and not just oon the axis. Because when you look at that graph,
it looks like a standard graph. If it's an unusual graph, then
the context is different and people may. And there is going to be
information there to insure that people aren't conflating it or
getting the wrong information from it. As I mentioned at the outset of
the lesson, there are a lot of readings on best practices that I'm
asking you to take a look at. I do want to touch on one best practice
that's probably the most widely discussed in sort of the inner circles
of data visualization that you often get on the Internet. And that is the pie chart. Besides the bar graph, the pie chart is probably the most
widely used visualization. It looks like at first glance
a great way to show percentages. There are two readings, in fact,
that I've assigned that debate this, but I tend to come on the side that really
wants people to shy away from pie charts. And I'll show you an example why. The reason is that pie charts
should only be used for only the most narrow circumstances. We could always just go ahead and use a different graph,
specifically a bar graph for any ways. Here are two simple charts
using exactly the same data. One is a pie chart and one is a bar graph. So let's look at the pie
chart Very carefully here. Even with the numbers and
the labels, doesn't Person A, Person B, and Person C seem to
have roughly the same percentage, based on the size of the pie slice? Now focus your eyes on the Bar Graph. It's evident very quickly that
Person A has the highest percentage. And that it's actually
notably higher than Person C. Even without any strategic use of
color it's just plainly evident. So yeah, with data labels you could show that one
pie slice is bigger than the other one. But why bother when you
can just use a bar graph? So the next lesson is going
to move from the ethics to what I'm calling ineffective visuals. And again, this is going to be something
that we're going to be just talking about a lot in the remainder of the course,
but it'll be good to get really into thinking about what are ineffective
visuals and what are effective visuals. So stay tuned, thank you. Out there.
So, stay tuned. Take care.