[MUSIC] Hello and thank you for joining me. Getting the most from data visualization
begins with knowing a few essentials about how the human brain operates,
both its amazing strengths and some important limitations. Keeping these attributes
of the brain in mind, along with the design
approaches to address them, can help make your visualizations
more useful, engaging, and effective. This lesson will lay the foundations of the relationship between the human
brain and how to visualize data. Hi, and welcome back. Data visualization pioneer,
Ben Shneiderman, once said quote, the purpose of
visualization is insight, not pictures. This means the most
important transformation that you can make as a designer
is not turning data into charts. But turning data into something clear and
meaningful in the minds of your audiences. To do this,
it helps to develop an awareness for certain aspects of how our brains operate. Although, there's a debate, about exactly
how much of the human brain's capacity is devoted to visual processing with
estimates ranging from 30 to 60%. There's no doubt that it's a significant
part of how we process information. By comparison, touch is about 8% for
example and hearing is only about 2%. Our brains are wired for
fast visual processing. For our ancestors this need for speed could tip the balance
between life and death. The ability to quickly detect and
decode subtle visual cues, like animal tracks or
movements in the bushes, could make the difference between
seeing dinner or being dinner. Although, many of the dangers our
ancestors faced have receded, our ability to rapidly perceive patterns
and detect subtle visual queues remains. The impulse to detect, match,
and make sense of patterns is so strong that many of us do it not only for
practical purposes, but also as a form of pure play in many games. A core part of data visualization
design involves repurposing our innate visual abilities to adapt
to a world that's flooding with data. That's part of your work as
a visualization designer. And the more you become aware of
people's visual processing strengths and limitations, the better
your designs will become. We are often far better at detecting and
interpreting patterns and features in data if they are presented
in a well executed visualization rather than a large tabular format. As you can see in these side by side
examples of a table and corresponding line chart, the visual approach can
accelerate the process of seeing trends. In some instances,
data sets can consist of thousands or even millions of rows and columns. So the direct use of only
tables becomes impossible. Even some common charts and graphs
get stretched to the breaking point. A key step in unlocking the power of
data visualization is a process of visual encoding. That is, assigning visual
attributes such as color or shape to different types of data. This process translate data into
a visual shorthand that people are good, generally speaking, at decoding. There are many encoding options in the
visualization toolbox and part of your job is to find the right mix of these options
and balance to clarify the data for users. Here's a very simple example. Please take a look at
the string of letters and see if you can find a word that
begins with P as quickly as you can. Now, let's encode every fourth letter
with the color purple and a bold font. And everything else will be light gray and
unbolded. It's a lot easier to see the word
with those encoding options. But assigning a different color to every
letter can negate the advantages in coding or even make patterns harder to detect,
as in this example. As we will learn over
the course of these lessons, thoughtful visual encoding can make or
break your visualizations. Now, there are a variety of visual
cues that pop out at us without conscious effort. These are also sometimes referred
to as pre-attentive attributes. Please take a look at these
sets of candy lozenges for pop-out effect examples including color,
shape, position, and others. You may find that the one
different element in each set of pop-outs almost
immediately without any conscience effort even though the difference in the unique
lozenge can be fairly subtle. In a sense data visualization
Begins with visual perception, but it certainly doesn't end there. Encoding provides great raw materials for
display, but you also need to think about
assembling those elements in ways that truly help people think clearly
and accurately about what they are seeing. In the example with letters, encoding helps to make some
of those letters pop out. And then, your brain can decode them and
make sense of them as the word play. In the next lesson, let's take a look at
the idea of two systems that drive the way people think and
how that applies to your design work. Thanks and see you next time.