[MUSIC] Hey there. So as I mentioned before, in this lesson,
we're going to use our Superstore dataset and I want to teach you different ways
to use Tableau for exploratory analysis. You will also learn some cool
techniques along the way. At the end of this lesson, you will be
able to identify outliers in your data. Let's get started.
[MUSIC] The identification of
outliers is a crucial, crucial part of exploratory analysis. And even within the genre of outliers, it could take on several
different types of subgenre. For example, it could be a coding error,
or someone has input the wrong value and that's sort of what people think
about when they think of outliers. But it could also be
an experimental error of some sort. All right, for example, you could
be collecting data in the lab and the air conditioner goes out of
commission or something in the heat or summer, for example. Some of that data may be off. Or, it could be something
very insightful in and of itself and that's really important to
think about when you're doing outliers. In data mining, for example, there's
a whole field or maybe sub-field called anomaly detection, which is the study
of how outliers can offer notable insights that were previously unavailable
through normal statistical techniques. So outliers are just very important. Some people, when they see outliers
they're like, it's so annoying, it's so annoying, but in fact outliers
are important on their own. Even if it's not a coding error,
it's probably not quite as important, but even then you have to consider it. Perhaps there's some reason why there's
some systematic coding errors or something like that. So outliers need to be taken into account,
and this should be at least at a minimum
known about by the analyst. The analyst should be extremely aware
about what these outliers are and how to address them. And they could address them in many ways. Well, let's get into the visualizations. First, we're going to bring up
the Sample Superstore dataset, then go to worksheet one when it's loaded. And we're going to, to first test for outliers in this dataset using
what's called a strip plot. A strip plot is a very clear
way to identify outliers in a single variable situation. So you're basically
taking one variable and then mapping it to see if there
are any outliers going on there. We are going to test the field Sales, so
I want you to drag the Sales to Columns, change the measure from Sum to an Average,
and look for the States field and
drag it to the Details mark. And so this is the Details mark. We haven't talked about that yet,
but basically the Details mark allows you to get some extra
details into your visualization. Now I'd like you to change
the marks from Automatic to Shape. So it's from Automatic to Shape. Now change the size to a slightly
larger circle and adjust. It doesn't matter how much,
just however much you feel. So now we can see it's very evident
that we have one, maybe two outliers. If you consider that one that's
closer to the others that we have, it may not be, but let's just say it is. The one that definitely is
an outlier is Wyoming and I'm finding that out by
just hovering over it. And the next one is Vermont. And the rest of the 48 or 49,
if they include the District of Columbia, are bunched really close together. So what does that mean? So if I'm wearing my hat as an analyst
here, I'm going to speculate and hypothesize and at least think
about this and then maybe prove it. But my hunch is that because Wyoming and
Vermont have very small populations. These are states that are just
tiny in the number, Wyoming's actually big geographically, are there
probably a very small number of purchase. But, those purchases happen
to be very expensive ones, so it causes those to be outliers. So my guess is that
it's not miscoded data, but it's actual, real data. And the reason these outliers
are happening is because of variations outside of that specific field. Another test I'll do a lot for outliers is something that's very
well known to statisticians. It's one of the first things you learn
when you take statistics classes as opposed to other types of data analysis
classes, and that's called a histogram. So we're going to create a new sheet in
the same Tableau instance that you just used to strip plot it. And while you're doing that,
here is the finished product. And what's going on is we
want to look at the end of it. So a histogram is a visualization that
uses rectangular bar charts to show distribution of continuous data. In Tableau's terminology,
it's a way to look at measures, and to evaluate how the measures are doing
when it's related to others. The first step is that we're
going to create what's called a bin. A bin is a way to categorize measures for
easy categorical analysis. So we're going to use Profits this time,
as opposed to Sales. We're going to use
Profits as our field and we're going to study it using a histogram. I want you to right-click on Profits and
then Create the Bins. Tableau will offer defaults, and
we're just going to accept those defaults. Once you've created the profit bin,
drag it to Columns. Now drag Profits to the Row field. And so look what's happening here. There's some products that sell at a loss,
so it's correctly showing negative. But a histogram really
needs to be scaled at zero. So what we'll do now is go up to the
SUM(Profit), click and select Edit Shelf. Then change this in the shelf itself
to the absolute value formula. I'm just putting ABS open parentheses and
then close parentheses. And there you go. So this is the absolute value, so it's always going to be a positive
number, a positive or zero number. So it looks finished. It kind of looks like a histogram,
which has a normal distribution, which is kind of nice with some tails and
high profit and high loss areas. But, if you hover over it,
you get extra information. You get more detailed information,
yet it's clearly wrong. So what we're going to do is we're going
to just clear that information out, as I'm doing here,
to make it actually correct. So now we have a histogram. Is there anything interesting here? What I see is that there are a lot of
items that are bringing in profit and some that aren't. And that's something that will
certainly need further exploration. So it seems as though there are some
outliers that certainly merit concern. And perhaps it'd be cause for
celebration in terms of the profits. For example, you can see here as I hover,
there's some stuff with some really big losses, where you really need to explore
that and see what's going on there. There may be some context that's missing,
but this just identifies and
flags areas of concern. To sum up, I just want to make sure that everyone
again knows how important outliers are. And the importance of understanding what
your outliers in your dataset are and how to address them,
if you're going to address them. So until next time, I'll see you later.