[MUSIC] Welcome back, these next sets of lessons
allow us to get into pre-attentive attributes for data visualizations. We're now going to talk about how
to make visualizations more usable, pr rather more accessible for the reader. When you see a poorly
designed visualization, who do you think she get to blame. Should we blame some nebulous
source like the data? Which is often who we blame,
it's like just the data. The data doesn't show it, but what if someone has trouble
interpreting a graph that you created? Is it the reader or
audience that is at fault? Is it basically that the reader just
doesn't understand what you're trying to tell them? You're right about that, but the answer to who is to blame is
the person who designed the visualization. If the reader can't understand it, that
means that the person who designed it, did not do a good job of
designing the visualization. So when you're doing visualizations
think through your designs, and take into account the needs of
the user of the visualization. You're the expert on the data,
they're not, and that is the focus for this lesson. We'll examine a couple of use cases to
define the point of reader usability. I want to use an iconic example to explain
what I mean about this accessibility usability thing, and this iconic
example is the London Underground map. Before 1933, the map was based on geography,
it makes a lot of intuitive sense and some of the lines go quite far but
some of the lines are much shorter. And there was a real problem,
there are a lot of lines in Central London and there are other lines that were
very far from Central London and so it actually couldn't
even be shown on the map. I have it on the screen
now in front of you, so lines in Central London were squeezed
together, making it hard to read. But lines further out couldn't
even be shown on the map. So even though it was in
a geographic representation, it wasn't actually very good
at showing geography either. Harry Beck who was an employee for the London Underground in 1933,
thought about this problem a lot. Passengers wanted to know
where to transfer to get to where they needed to go. So geographical accuracy ironically
was not important at all. They just need to know how,
where their station is versus the other stations
in the London Underground. So he designed a map to be almost like an electrical schematic
instead of a traditional map. And now even to this day, this is what
Londoners use to navigate the subway system, even though
there's many more lines. It is a map that has nothing
to do with geography, except in reference to the particular stop versus other particular stops
in the London Underground. It's a very innovative map, and
it's iconic you see it even in other countries as an example of
a way a system should be drawn. The key to why this redesign works is that
it conveys the information in the way the users need,
to eliminate clutter and distractions. It's not geographically accurate even
though it's a map, but it turns out that it doesn't matter, what matters
is that it's accessible, and usable. So we're going to channel Harry Beck in a
very small way, to make some modifications to the visualization we were working on in
the last lesson, so let's go to it now. So let's review the question that we
had in the last lesson as a refresher. The question that was posed to us is,
why sales to certain customers, on certain products, aren't profitable
despite there being a lot of sales. From our last lesson, we as the experts of the data looked
at discounts as a possible reason. So now we're going to apply
our expertise about the data towards making our
visualization accessible. And thus answered a question about whether
discounts are responsible for this. So let's bring up the tab visualization
that we just did in the last lesson. The first thing we'll do is right click
on the scatter pot that we've been working on. There is a bunch of options here, but
I want you to select duplicate sheet. And once that sheet is duplicated,
rename it as discounted sales. Just something to identify it because you're going to be working
with that one a bit. So make sure you're in that sheet,
called discounted sales. Click on Analysis,
then click on Aggregate Measures, that will check
Aggregate Measures in that menu. Because the scatter plot is not aggregate,
we need to re-aggregate the data, to be able to get a summary to
test our hypotheses on discounts. Now all you see in front of
you is a horizontal line, so I wanted you to just
click the Show Me tab and then click on the cross tab
just to get you some text. And we're going to be working
with that for a few minutes. Field, so now we're going to create
a calculated field called profitloss. And I'm just arbitrarily naming
it profitloss, one word. Again, this is working towards looking at discounts as a reason why some
stuff is selling at a loss. So the formula is as follows If
the profit ratio is less than or equal to zero then the profit
loss is equal to loss. Otherwise it's profit, so
again if the profit loss is less than or equal to zero then profit loss is
equal to loss otherwise it is profit. And now I'll change if it's not
already that way, make sure. That profit loss is at discrete dimension, it should be a discrete
dimension variable. The reason is that is because I want
to see the differences in discounts between sales that we're at a loss
in sales, that we're profitable. So let's drag the profit ratio and
sales field away from the visualization. Now, move the discount
field to measure values, the average discount given to
the profitable sales was 8%. While those making a loss
was discounted 47%, in other words selling stuff at
big discounts tanks profits. Now, it's entirely possible that you
know they wanted to get rid of it, they just wanted to clear out
the warehouse for new stuffs. So the context is in important and
we don't have that context but it's very interesting to
see this really in action. So how can we show this in a way
that taps into our iconic or at least short term memory and
make it thus. Rather accessible and usable, I want to take a second here and
put in a plug for boring old text. Text is awesome and thoughtfully deployed is essential
to usability of your visualization. But the way I have the text here is
a little bit hard to be able to interpret. It uses too much of brain power, so
I'm going to make some changes to make it more accessible and
add some texting to help out. So first I want to change the discount
from a decimal to a percent, just because it's easier for
us to understand. We're sort of used to seeing
percentages at for discounts. So we're just going to change that now,
then I'm going to use the power of Tableau
here to generate a graph. And all I'm doing is dragging the sum
of profit field from where it is now to the column shelf and it automatically does something
interesting, it turns it into a graph. Now take the profitloss field from
the left and drop it over color. The colors Tableau chooses might be
different on your screen then on my screen. But we need to change them anyways, so I'm going to choose a light grey for
profit and red for loss. I want to add some text context to it, remember I said a couple minutes
ago that text is very important so I want to drag profitloss and
profit to text. So now click on the label, click on the three dots you see
in front of me to edit the label. Type in format text to read discount for summer profit of profitloss
is average discount. And what that is, is just basically
putting in the field there so that Tableau knows what number to add or
a text to add, for the particular place
that the label goes. I'm going to get rid of all the axis
because we have data labels so we don't need an axis. However, before I do that, I'm going to
add what's known as a reference line. And this reference line, is simply a way to show an illustration
that I feel is necessary. So I'm going to put a zero reference
line so that we know where the zero is 0%, or zero profit rather. And then to the left of it is going to
be loss, to the right is profit, and so it's a pretty straight
forward reference line. This may be the first time you've seen a
reference line, and this is how you do it. You create a reference line here, and you put the information on the graph,
and now I can remove the axis. So it's a nice way to actually show
give you a little bit more context. Now I'm going to tweak the location
of the text just a little bit. Your mileage might vary on how you want to
tweak it but there you go, and it's done. So what we have done here is
actually make a presentation that could be a little bit overwhelming to
someone much more accessible and usable. And the key is that you
as the data analyst are the ones who are able
to analyze it and pick out the details that are needed
to be able to show the decision makers. The information so
that she can turn around and say okay, what are we going to do with this? What sort of actions if any are we
going to take on this information. So I'll see you next time, take care, bye. Simply move forward with
some sort of actionable piece here, so until next time,
have a good day.