[MUSIC] This lesson is around aesthetics. And the idea behind this is that yeah, we want to make it have all of these
important features such as pre-attentive. We want to make it nice and usable. We want to make it uncluttered, we want to make sure that there
is not too much cognitive load. We want to make sure that you're using
at least one of the Goshal principles. But also, we want to make it look nice. And I think that's very important,
that the visualization looks nice. But by looking nice I don't mean you have
to be this artist whose painting this very fancy visualization that
you don't want to touch. It's just something you want to admire. No, on the contrary you want to bring
in aesthetics because you want to draw the reader to it. In this lesson we're going to view some
examples that demonstrate strategic use of color, alignment, and the use of
white space in data visualizations. As I said before, your visualizations
don't have to be artistic. It just has to have a certain
aesthetic to be an aesthetic visualization it needs three
fundamental components, color, alignment, and
leveraging of white space. So the first is color and
we've talk a lot about color but you should used color very intentionally. That is color should be
use very strategically and sparingly to highlight what you want
the audience to see in your visual. Next you want to be able to ensure that
the alignment is how you want it, so you need to pay very careful attention to
the alignment of the different elements of your visualization on the page to
ensure that there there is a clean and vertical and horizontal lines. You don't want the alignment to be off
because that is where people are going to focus on. It's a distraction and then you are going to lose that
important reattentive attribute piece. Finally and something actually
I haven't talked much about yet is about leveraging white space. You don't want to make it so
that the visual takes up all of the room. What you want to do is strategically use
white space to be able to differentiate aspects of the visuals and
as way to focus to attention and keep things looking uncluttered. So white space is something that
really comes into play in aesthetics. White space is often misused. So what happens is that there
may be too much or too little space between titles and
data, so it's difficult to be able to draw your eyes' and
brain's attention to what you really need. And so it's really very artistic and it's difficult to be able to illustrate
because I think there is some flare and artistic license that you need to be
able to use to be able to emphasize what you need while also providing all of the
information in the space that you have. So it's really something that you
have to keep playing with and tweaking until you are comfortable with
how much white space you are using. It's a crucial to aesthetics but
of course it's tricky to be able to give you cut and
dry ways of thinking about it. So as I just said when we talk about
aesthetics in general it's very subjective and it's hard to say
okay I can show you this. Let me show you and like visuals that
have a certain aesthetic element to it, and we should just discuss it and this is
something you should really think about. What is it about a particular visual
that makes it a good visual for the specific of our examples? So let me start with the first one. Our first visual is
an example of a line graph. And the idea is that we want to be
able to see how we are doing today versus last year. And whether we'll be able
to meet some sort of goal. And I think that this you can
see here is an example of it. And so one thing I want you to think
about as you're looking at this and maybe applying it to your own
visualization is what is it about this visual that allows the reader to
get the information that they need but also has the aesthetic quality to
it that is recommended by many of the top visualization
designers in the world today. Okay, so moving to the next example. Here is a horizontal stack bar,
which is my favorite type of visual. Because I just find it to be so
easy to understand for everyone. And here is something from
my field in economics. I know a fair bit about this information. Which is a survey about the priorities in
development from a development agency. What we can see here is that there is
a certain aesthetic that the user has in place here to be able to allow
the audience to get a sense of what are the most important things. What should be the priority
based on the survey results? In this case, it's very clear. You look at it, and
it's like boom education, agriculture, rural development, and poverty reduction,
those are the three most important. But the other stuff are important too,
and we're going to show those but we're going to put those
a little bit in the background. And that's something that
I've talked about before. The reason I find that this
particular model of visual is so effective is that it allows the reader
to spend just a second to be able to say this is important,
I know because it's in blue. The title is in blue, the top three
are in blue, the bars are in blue. What are the priorities
based on the survey results? This is exactly the type of thing we
should see when we're doing visuals for an audience whether it's a PowerPoint
to 500 people, whether it's 10 people on the conference room or
whether it's to a colleague down the hall. In other words this is a type of thing
that audience can just quickly pick up out of blue and say okay well I'm interested other things,
but let's just take a look here. Yeah, I see there's
something I'm interested in, like basic infrastructure's only 8%. That's interesting, so
maybe I'm still going to tackle this, but I'm going to have to
marshal other evidence to show that we need to be
tackling basic infrastructure. And so it makes it easy for us to say,
okay, well, the survey results say education, ag and rural development, and
poverty reduction's are the biggest. So maybe that's what we should go with. And so we're really telling a story,
right? As we're going to go over in course four, we're going to be talking about stories,
in virtually the whole course. We're telling the story here of what the
survey results that we need to know are. And what we prioritize in the future and
it's very simple. And so with that thank you for
joining me here in module three, see you in module four when
Hunter is going to talk about a more high level look at these things.