[MUSIC] Hello, so what is exploratory analysis? What is explanatory analysis? Don't worry, by the end of this lesson you will be able
to define the difference between the two. And you will be up to discuss why they
are important to data visualization. So let's get started. Exploring your data is a crucial step in understanding what may
lie within your data. What I mean is, before you can
actually begin analyzing your data, you will need to explore your data,
so you can be familiar with it. This is what we call exploratory analysis. It involves digging through your
data to find relationships and trends without a specific goal in mind. Maybe you have a question
you need answered, or maybe you have a hypothesis that
you would like to try and prove. Can this data help you? Okay, let me walk through an example. You need to know where
your data comes from. How is it labeled? Is it structured or unstructured data? Are there holes in your data? Are you seeing any trends with the data? Any relationships forming as
you become familiar with it? Knowing these items will make it
easier for you to analyze your data. When exploring your data, although there
is no direct process to follow, you should always have a clear understanding of
what questions you are trying to answer. Knowing which questions you are trying
to answer will make it much easier for you to choose your variables for analysis, and also determine which
analyses to use when analyzing the data. In contrast, explanatory analysis is what
happens when you have something specific you want to show an audience. Explanatory analyses involves
explaining the outcomes or relationships you may have found
during your exploratory phase. In other words, when you want or
need to tell a story with the data. For example, let's assume you have a data
set of sales orders across the US, over a certain period of time,
let's say the past 20 years. In the exploratory phase, you can try
different combinations of variables trying to find associations
between states, sales personnel, sale orders, etc.,
over the 20 year period. In the exploratory phase, you find that certain states have
higher than normal sales orders. Now, in the explanatory phase, you could
show which states have the highest sales orders, and try to explain why that is. You could show that the states
with the highest sales orders have the highest population, or that
the states with the highest sales orders have the most experienced sales personnel. Okay, so now you should be able to
define the difference of exploratory and explanatory analysis. In the next lesson, we will use a data set to see
an example of the two within Tableau.