[MUSIC] All right. For this final lesson in this mini module,
we're going to explore data a bit more using visualizations while
also getting more fluent with Tableau. As I mentioned before,
we're going to work with Tableau and take on a bit of a challenge but
it's going to be a lot of fun, so hang in there and let's enjoy this. For this lesson we're going to construct
something called a control chart. A control chart is a way to see how well
we're doing based on standard deviations, it's a good way to see if
things are going okay or if there's a problem we
should be worried about. It's about finding errors and
understanding the range of our data. Now, before we dive right in, let me
tell you briefly about the history of control charts, as I think
you'll find it very interesting. They were used way back
before World War II. But they really got going in Japan
after the war where it has been and was very widely used to minimize
errors in manufacturing. If something was outside of the norm,
usually two standard deviations, it's a potential problem and
it needs to be looked at in detail. So they would actually
stop the assembly line and try to address the problem
before they continued. This has been studied in detail and has
shown as a result Japanese manufacturing became extremely reliable and had that
competitive edge because they were able to do this very simple thing,
using these control charts. You can apply a lot of these concepts to
other types of visualization in your life, and throughout the specialization. Okay, let's do this. We're, again, going to look at profits,
so if you don't have it open already, please open the sale superstore
data set that we've used before. Here is what it's going to
look like when we're all done. Looks pretty cool actually. In our new sheet, drag the order
date columns and profit rows. Make sure that the date field is
changed to Month like I'm doing here. So, you should see what almost
looks like a scatter plot. But it is not a scatter plot. Don't think of it that way. Definitely not a scatter plot. A scatter plot shows
the relationship between two fields. This type of visualization shows
us values that lie outside of different standard deviations. So now comes the challenging and fun part. We're going to add information that will
allow us to examine the data quickly and identify any potential
issues very quickly. And possible explore new avenues of
explanatory analysis down the road. So what we're doing now is exploratory. And so to do this we're going to
introduce what's called a parameter. Now, my colleague is going to do a ton of
detail and parameters in the next course. So I don't want to go
into all these details. This is going to do a great job of really
setting all of this stuff up for you. I'll give you a little primer on it and maybe you can start to
apply it a little bit. But his explanation will further
clarify any issues that crop up. So let's go through the steps
on doing this parameter, so right click, create a parameter, call it
standard deviations, as I'm doing here. We want to have an integer with
an allowable range of 1 to 6. And so the parameter, again,
is named standard deviations. And we're going to set the integer
with an allowable range of 1 to 6. Hit OK. Then will click the drop down and
then show parameter control. There's actually nothing setup yet. This is just the parameter itself, but
we have to feed the parameter information. The information will feed
in from calculated fields. There are two calculated fields. We're going to call one lower bound and
we're going to call the other upper bound. And here's the formula for lower bound. I'm going to read it out
as we're doing it, but it's really important to actually look at it
here to make sure you get all the nuances, the parenthesis, and
everything in the right spot. It's the window average
of the sum of profits. Minus the window standard
deviations of the sum of profits times the standard deviation. And the standard deviation is
the name of the parameter. So you're incorporating
the parameter into the calculousy. Just explain what this formula is saying
is, we're going to take the average of the summer profits that you see on the
screen and we're going to subtract it from the standard deviation of what you
see on the screen and the sum of it, then we're going to multiply
by the parameter that select. So if we select one, this is the standard
deviation of the sum of profits. But if it's 2, it's 2 times whatever
the window of standard deviation is. The upper bound is almost identical,
but just pay attention here. Instead of subtracting the window average
from the window standard deviation you're adding them. So it's the window average of
the sum of profits plus the window standard deviation of the sum
of profits multiplied by the parameter which is
called standard deviations. And so now you have two formulas. We click OK two formulas,
a lower bound and an upper bound. And we're going to put these
into the visualization. And then we'll have a dual axis. What we're going to do is, we're going to
drag them into the right side of the visualization and
make them part of the dual axis. So that this visualization
is not using the other axis, we're going to change
their mark types to line. And we created to the axis but
now we need to do something else. So I double click the right axis and
then check synchronized axis. So double click on it and
then check synchronized axis. Now we're going to use that preattentive
attribute that we learned in the course. And we spend quite a bit of time on. We're going to create
another calculated field and we're going to call it attributes. And the formula is shown
here on the screen. It is the sum of profits is
greater than the upper bound. Or the sum of profits is
less than the upper bound. So that means, it's basically a flag. If it's above the upper bound or
below the upper bound, please flag it. Otherwise, don't flag it. So let's do this now. All we do is we drag this attributes
field to color on the profits mark card. Make sure it's on the profit
marks card when you add that. So now look at this, this is really cool. So you can change it to standard deviation
slider and then note the changes in what's outside the standard deviation
that you select and what's inside. That's really cool. So this is the interactive piece
of this control chart here. So you may have designed this for
some sort of manager, maybe someone in the on the factory floor
that's looking at some of the stuff, and then they can say, look at this. Two standard deviations. And here's some really great profits and
here's some really bad losses. Or vice versa. Or you could do one standard deviation or
you could do three standard deviations. You could do more. And so what this is a very cool way
to very quickly identify an issue with the data and what's going on in
the world that's causing the data to be maybe a little bit off. So this is what they call control
chart and I really thank you for joining me in this lesson,
see you next time.