[MUSIC] Welcome back. I hope you were able to gain
an understanding of the difference between exploratory and explanatory
analysis from my colleague Sook. Moving forward, most of what we will
be discussing is exploratory analysis, since we don't necessarily have an idea
of the questions we are trying to answer. In this lesson,
we're going to exam a classic case study. It's called the Anscombe Quartet,
and it revolutionized data analysis. It was first posited in the early 1970s,
he stated that you can't just use summary statistics to understand
the data, you have to visualize it. In a world where we have data sets that
could be in the trillions of records, Anscombe's argument is
even more relevant today. It's not to say that summary
statistics aren't important. They are absolutely essential,
but you must also visualize it. So we're going to do it with tableau. So this is how it's going
to look when it's all done. Looks exciting, right? Well, let's get started. These data are available
to you in the resources. But, let me first introduce it. This are the data that
Francis Anscombe used. It's a very simple data
set at first glance. All of the x values are identical, x1, x2, x3 and x4. All of the y values have
the changes depending on whether it's in y1, y2,y3 or y4. Now the crucial thing is that the summary
statistics, the average, the variance, the correlation and the linear
regression slope are all identical. So the mean of x1, x2,
x3 and x4 are all 9. The means of y1, y2,
y3, and y4 are all 7.5. And similarly,
the variance of x are all identical, and the variances of ys are all identical. The correlations of each of those x1 and
y1, x2, y2, x3, y3, x4, and y4 are all identical, which means it is exactly the same
regression line for each of the equations. Now, we want to do this in Tableau. This is a Tableau class, so it's very important we do as
much as we can in Tableau. And it's going to be much easier
to do the visualizations, data setter cleaned up to
make it easier for us to use. In this case, we're going to do
what's called normalizing the data. What that means is that each row
contains only one piece of information. So, in the data set shown here, it is
designed to be analyzed using summary statistics in a statistical software
package like Stata, SAS, R or SPSS. But in Tabeau, it's not intended to be
a statistical software application. It's a visualization package,
and thus, normalizing data is essentially done to maximize what
you can do with data in Tableau. So although I'm going to do
the visualization in Tableau, I'm going to do the data
preparation in Excel. Because it's actually much more
difficult to do it in Tableau and Excel is really made to do
this data manipulation. Now to do this, I modified the spreadsheet
and you can do this however you want it. You can do it manually,
you can do it through cut and paste, but I'm not going to go through this exercise
because this is not an Excel course. I made the change to the spreadsheets. So now there's a number going down
the side, and there's an x and y column. So instead of having x1, y1, x2, y2,
etc., it's the number and then x and y. So it's going down, so
again, it's normalized. And there's one piece of data element for
each row. Now this is interesting because
there are two additional columns that really require explanation. One is called Column and
one is called a Row. And yes,
there's a column that I'm naming Rows. Each row is assigned a value,
either first or second depending on where I want the
particular chart to go into visualization. And the reason why I
have those two columns, is because we want to replicate what
Francis Anscombe did back in 1973. To not only prove a point
about outliers and the importance of exploratory
analysis through visualization, but also to give you a little taste about the
cool tricks that you can do in Tableau. To be able to get visualizations that you
wouldn't normally be able to do just by doing some of the default choices
that are available in Tableau. Tableau is powerful enough to be able
to allow these other innovations, through various calculations, to make
your visualizations look really cool. Okay so, the data are ready for Tableau. In the last course, you spent some time walking through
how to import the data from Excel. It's very important that it's just
really what you're going to be doing most of the time. But this data set, isn't that big,
it's actually considered tiny. And so, this is an opportunity
to show you another trick. You need to copy the data from Excel,
like I'm doing here. Make sure you grab every row and
column, don't forget anything, just double check, and
then do the copy in Excel. I usually do Ctrl+V, if you have a PC, but
you can do it from the drop downs as well. So just copy that information down. If you already haven't done so,
please open Tableau. Click on the Data menu,
then click on Paste Data. It will churn, but not for very long, and
then voila, your data is now in Tableau. It's really cool, because you
don't have to do the importing, you just paste it in there. And it will work for medium size data,
and this is perfect for our benefit here. So definitely take advantage of that. If you just need it just to get that
visualization done, just paste it in. You don't even have to get it
imported it from an Excel document. However, there are some changes that
you're going to make to the Excel file, it would be good to do it
through data connections. Because you pasted the data, Tableau is
actually trying to guess how you want the information, and
it puts in a cross tab. It's nice to have that cross tab, maybe,
but that's not what we want, of course. So drag all the fields away. Another way to do it is you would
just go up to the drop downs here, and you can just clear the worksheet. We're left with a blank
canvas to work our magic. And so remember how I said that it's
odd to have a column named Column, and a column named Row. It is, let's be honest. But what we want to do with these
is to coax Tableau to do something that we want it to do, and so,
again, this is really something useful that you could take away and
use in your own visualization. When you're really thinking about how
to figure out how to do something, you can often coax it in different ways,
and this is one way to do it. We're going to move the columns,
held to the columns, as you can see here, and the rows pill to the rows. And this is what you have so far. It's not much, right? So now move x to columns, then click on
that pill and change it to dimension. Do the same for y,
change it to dimension as well. It's starting to look like
the final product, isn't it? Now we'll do a little
bit of formatting here. So let's change the marks to a circle. Change the color to orange, and
enlarge the size of the circle up a bit. We're going to add a trend line here, but I'm going to remove that confidence
interval that it automatically puts there. Okay, so now look at these four panes. Well I showed you the summary stats,
and here they are again. These data sets look virtually,
not just virtually but actually identical, but
obviously they're not. As evidence through visualization and
not through summary statistics. The one on the bottom right, for
example, fits the same exact regression line as the one
in the upper left. Yet the data sets are very different. The one in the upper left is sort of
a traditional linear correlation between x and y, but it actually has exactly
the same correlation as the bottom right. So you remember the adage, which is
pretty common even outside of stats, is correlation is not causation, and
this actually shows that very effectively. It basically shows that on the top left,
it does seem to work. Correlation and
causation seem to go hand in hand. But the bottom right, and the one above
of our examples, where the correlation is a very high correlation,
it's actually the same as another one. And it absolutely does not equal
causation, and that's a very interesting way to understand and
really visualize statistics. And trying to intuitively understand
it which every data analyst should be able to do. I'm assigning a couple of readings on the
Anscmbe's Quartet and why it's important. But in the meantime bottom line is this, make sure you do exploratory
work on your data. In the next lesson we're going to show
more ways about learning your data through exploratory work. So I'll see you there.