Welcome back. Earlier in this module, we explained the difference between discrete and continuous dates, as well as how and when to use date hierarchies. For this lesson, I will show you how to convert between discrete and continuous dates and vice versa. You will be able to use these conversions in your own visualizations, and you will be able to identify when and why you would want to switch from one date type to the other. Let's get started. Now, there are a couple of ways to create a continuous date from a discrete date. First, let's drag our order date to the column shelf, and then right click on the pill or hover over the pill until you see the drop-down arrow, and then click on that to reveal the context menu. One of the options here is to convert the field to continuous, or you can also select one of the predefined dates in the continuous block. By clicking on the continuous option, we have now converted our discrete date field into a continuous date field. Instead of dragging the date field onto your shelf, you can also right click and drag your date field onto the shelf. Lets right click and drag our order date field to the column shelf. Once you drop the field, a window appears with a list of possible values or variations you may want for your date field. This allows you to directly choose a continuous format instead of getting a discrete field and then having to convert it to continuous. From here, we can choose the correct date field and click on 'OK'. You can use these methods to change continuous dates into discrete dates also. Treating dates as a continuous quantity is particularly useful when you use Gantt charts or want to see trends using line charts over time. But, if you want to be able to sort your date field for a specific visual, discrete dates maybe more beneficial. So far in this course, you have learned a difference between discrete and continuous dates, how to use data hierarchies, how to convert between discrete and continuous dates, and why you would want to switch from one date type to the other. In the final lesson of this module, we will discuss and create dates using calculated fields for those moments when a date field is not available. Good luck.