[MUSIC] Hello. In this lesson, we're going to answer the
questions, what is data visualization and why do we do it? I want you to be able to
articulate three specific ways visualization can aid
in business analytics. But first,
we need to ensure we all recognize and can define the basic terminologies of data
visualization and business analytics. I'll touch on the key terms in this
lesson but I've also included a couple of readings that are essential to
help you define other terms. Great, let's dive in. What is data visualization and
why do we do it? Simply put, data visualization is
using pictures to represent data. It's been around for hundreds of years,
but recent technological advances have made it easy to summarize large
volumes of data very quickly. For example, one can take 50 years of
crime data in the United States and illustrate patterns and relationships
across time, geography and types of crime. In theory, it could have been
done before we had computers, but now we can churn through millions
of rows of data in seconds. Plus, we can have interactivity that
wasn't possible in those iconic and historic visualizations. Business analytics is about asking
questions and using statistical and quantitative tools for explanatory and
predictive analysis that answer questions. Data visualization is at its heart
a business analytics tool because it lends itself well to what's called
data-driven or fact-based decision making. Decision makers can click
through visualizations and drill down to the details that
they need really quickly. If a decision maker can't drill down and the information isn't readily available,
they'll have to ask the analyst for more information, which could take
weeks or months before it's compiled. Why should we do data visualization when
the same information might be available in say, Excel tables or in spreadsheets? The first reason is that it just
looks nicer, but more importantly, we can't really process data or
see insights using just spreadsheets. This is a phenomenon known as
the picture superiority effect. For example, suppose you were
given a spreadsheet like this. Let's see if you can find
the five highest revenue product regions from the data here. You can even pause the video and
see if you can do it. Even if you were able to find those five,
I'm sure it wasn't that easy. But, if I as an analyst decided
to add just a smallest amount of color using Excel's very simple and
straightforward conditional formatting, all of a sudden, it's completely evident. All with the click of a button and
you've provided the decision maker the information very quickly and easily. But this is just for small amounts of information that
gets compiled into spreadsheets. But what about the large amount
of information that we get from a wide variety of sources
in every field imaginable? This large amount of data has
spun off a specialization around what is known as big data. The premise of big data isn't
that it's just a lot of rows and columns in a data table but
it's actually something very different. To be real big data in the way that it
is commonly understood by professionals, data must be of three components. One, increasing in volume, two, increasing at a very high velocity and
three, with a lot of variety. Big data also drops the assumption of
statistics to uncover relationships that may seem arbitrary, but after it's been
analyzed through a computational process known as machine learning, the
relationships begin to gather structure. The wind map that you see on
the screen is an example of one way that big data can be visualized. Another example of big data is real time
monitoring of credit card transactions. When you use a credit card in a certain
way that may be unusual, you may received a text message or a phone call asking you
to confirm if the transaction is valid. That's because big credit card companies
have analyzed patterns of use and can predict what a fraudulent
transaction is and what it isn't. There are times when big data and data
visualization get conflated with other essential terms, for example,
business intelligence. Business intelligence, which is widely
known as BI, is a set of tools and techniques that data from various
databases gets stored in data warehouses. And gets converted into meaningful
information through the use of queries and reports that are often
developed by IT professionals. Ideally, analysts will take
information stored in various formats by the IT professionals and coax it into data visualizations that
could be used for decision making. That's enough of the terminology for now. In the next lesson, we'll be looking
at some software options for doing data visualizations. Make sure you review the readings
to get more familiar with The terminology that I touched upon and with other terminology you'll hear
around data visualization and analytics. Until next time, bye.