[MUSIC] Welcome back. After all of the preliminaries,
it's time for the fun part, the first visualization
we're going to do in this course. I don't want you to worry about
some of the details for now. We'll delve into those later. What I want you to do is follow along. You could always pause it or even go back
a little bit if you miss out on something, but don't worry too much about it. Just watch and replicate. From your web browser,
go to the URL shown on the screen. Make sure you type it in exactly as it's
written there, otherwise it won't work. If you need to,
feel free to pause the video so that you can make sure that you have
it onscreen before you continue. Click on the Download Workbook in
the upper right-hand side of the website, as shown in the screen in front of you. Again, make sure that you have it
downloaded fully before continuing so that we're able to be on the same page. The file will download. Depending on your browser setting,
you will either be able to open the file immediately, or you'll have
to open it from your saved location. In either case, make sure you open it in
Tableau Public and come back to the video. Once opening Tableau Public, I want you to drag the country
field away like I'm doing. I'll show you here a few times so
that your screen will look just like mine. The reason the country field is there in
the document is because Tableau Public won't allow me to save a file without
at least a little visualization. So this is just giving
a small visualization so that you all could download it. And I want to drag it away so
that it's a completely blank slate, and we could start from there. Now we'll go very slowly so you can
replicate exactly what I'm doing here. But if I'm going too fast,
which sometimes happens, just hit the pause button on
the screen and then you can catch up. You can even go backwards and
see something that you may have missed. But the goal of this is really just
to see how quickly we can actually do a meaningful visualization with
data that we already have. Okay, now let's do this. The first thing we're going
to do is to set up our map. I'm grabbing the longitude field with my
mouse and dragging it to the column shelf. Next, I'll grab the latitude field and
drag it to the row shelf. If you make a mistake, just click on
the back arrow as seen on the screen. That undoes the last action that you did. Again, you're dragging the longitude
field to the column shelf and the latitude to the rows shelf. Drag the country field and
drop it over the map. To do this, click on the country field and
hold the left mouse button down, drag it over, and
just let go of the mouse button. Look for the folder that says development. Click on the folder and
expand the options as I'm doing. Select the CO2 emissions field. Drag it and drop it on the color button,
as I'm doing here. On my screen, it seems to show
that the higher the CO2 emissions, the greener the color. That doesn't make sense,
since CO2 is a type of pollution. So we need to change the color of the map,
for sure. To edit the color,
I'm going to just click on color and edit the color to an orange color range instead
of the green that I have on my screen. Now I'm going to add a filter. Let's do a filter on years so
that we can highlight specific years instead of showing all
the years In one map. What you do is you right-click
on years and say show filter. Then you go all the way
to the right-hand side, you click on the little arrow, and
then select the single value list so that we can see the years and
how things change from year to year. We're going to be using this dataset
a fair bit in our exploration of data visualization. This first example is just
a taste of what we will see. It'll be exciting to see all of the
different ways we can look at the data to allows us to answer questions and
discover interesting insights. And we'll be doing this for
the next several classes, so stay tuned. And we're going to do even
more advanced visualizations, more advanced dashboards,
more advanced story boards. So stay tuned.