[MUSIC] Hi everyone, my name is Govind Acharya and I'd like to welcome you to
the Fundamentals of Visualization. This is the first course with
the data visualization and storytelling specialization brought
to you by UC Davis Extension. I'm very excited to be a part of this. And I hope you will get
a lot out of this course. I've been working in data analytics and
visualization for over a decade in industry,
higher education, and the nonprofit world. For both industry and higher education,
I developed diversity dashboards and profiles to allow senior leaders to
examine gaps in hiring and admission. In the nonprofit sector, I use data visualization to identify
potential fundraising opportunities, that were not evident from
simply looking at spreadsheets. A famous American baseball player and
coach, Yogi Berra, once said that,
you can see a lot by looking. And, he's so right. This is what data
visualization is all about. It's taking a bunch of numbers and
texts and transforming them into something
our brain can process. This specialization will be a hands on
examination of data visualization and storytelling. We're going to assume that you're new
to the field of data visualization. But once you've completed the various
courses within the specialization, you'll have a solid base that
you can use with in your career. This particular courses been
broken into four modules. In the first module, we're going to
identify what types of software options are available to do visualizations and
define common terminology. You will install Tableau Public
software on your own computer and do a visualization. In the second module, you will
navigate and practice the nuts and bolts of Tableau Public. It's a pretty intuitive piece of software,
but it's important for us to be on the same page with the basics. The third module is being taught
by my colleague Suk Brar. Suk has over ten years of
experience in statistical and predictive analysis, data forecasting,
and data visualization. He brings with him a unique perspective, as he has worked in various
industries throughout his career. In that module you will prepare and
import data into Tableau Public. In the final module of this course
I want to take a step back and help you think about how to
contextualize your questions so that the data visualizations
can answer those questions. You will be able to determine how your
visualization will address the who, what, and how of a data context. Again, I'm really excited
you're taking this course and I think that you'll learn a lot. So let's dive right in and get started.