[MUSIC] Hello, in the last lesson, I gave you
a brief overview of the different apps for doing visualizations. I spent a fair bit of time
talking about Tableau. That's the software we're going to use
because it has the right mix of being easy to use and also being very powerful
for the things that it is made to do. Other apps like Excel, Python or R can do
many things well, but visualization and storytelling is not their strength
in the way it is for Tableau. So we're going to use Tableau Public for
the remaining lessons and courses. But first we do need to get it
installed on your computer and have you register for an account. Let's get started. To install Tableau Public,
go to your browser and enter the URL you see on the screen. It's public.tableau.com/s/. Scroll down a bit and
enter your email address in the box. Then click on Download the App. When it's done downloading,
open the downloaded file and install. Once Tableau Public has installed
on your computer, open it, if it's not already open, and navigate to
where it says, open from Tableau Public. That should appear on the right hand
side of the Tableau Public space. Click on the Open from Tableau text and
a dialog box will pop up. Now assuming that you don't have
a Tableau Public log in already, click on the Create one now for free text. And when you do that, another dialog box will appear called
the Tableau Public Registration. Fill out all of the information, and make sure that you check the terms and
conditions on the bottom of the screen. So you may have to scroll
down to actually do that. But make sure you check that. Once you send that off to Tableau,
you will need to check your email. Tableau will send you an email
asking you to verify the account, you click on the link in
the email that you get. Then your account will be created, and you will be all set with
a Tableau Public account. And in the next video,
we're just going to go right in to it. We're going to do our first visualization. So see you soon.