[MUSIC] There's a whole set of theories
around how we perceive information. Since the revolution of data visualization
began, we've been looking to psychology to help us to explain to practitioners
ways to improve our visualizations. We'll talk about one of these,
known as the Gestalt Principles. In this lesson, I will illustrate six
of these principles as there are more. But the ones that I want to focus on
directly relate to data visualizations. After this lesson, you will be apply them to data
visualizations you build in the future. The Gestalt school of thought was studied
in the early part of the last century to evaluate how the brain
perceives the world around us. It's how we ought to
organize our visualizations to be effective at conveying information. As there are six of them, we'll illustrate them on the screen to
help us visualize them in our minds. The readings, of course,
delve into much more detail. The six principles are, one, proximity. Two, similarity. Three, enclosure. Four, closure. Five, continuity. And six, connection. Let's go into each of these. Proximity is when elements
are placed close together, allowing them to be perceived by our
mind as a group and belonging together. What you see on the screen is
the perception that the image on the left is a group while the image on
the right shows the squares as separate because they're not as
close to each other as the others. The best example of this in visualization
comes from geography and mapping. And in the next module, we're going to go through an example of
the proximity principle in some detail. Similarity is when we naturally connect
things that look alike as being part of a group. This is especially useful in scatter
plots with different categories. What you see on the screen
is a scatter plot. The plus symbols are of one type and
squares and circles are of a different type. Enclosure is very useful at highlighting
of differentiating areas of a contrast. On the visualization shown,
values to the left and right of the grayed areas
means something discrete, those on the left are in one group,
those in the right are in the other group. Notice how your mind's eye can clearly
differentiate between the two groups. The next principle is a little
bit more difficult to explain. So let me do my best. It's called closure and it's the acceptance of the premise that
people like to keep things as simple as possible as long as it fits the existing
construct that's in our head. We can fill in the gaps if
we're used to seeing it. The visualization on the left and the visualization on the right both
meet the closure threshold. And the reason they both follow
the closure principle is because our mind doesn't need the complete border,
the axis, or whatever to be able to
discern meaning from them. So it's a very useful principle. We can also describe the continuity for the visualization on the right
and that is the next principle. The bar graph still works
without any axis at all because the bars are lined up
on the invisible axis. If there is a perception that the bars
weren't lined up on the axis then one would need to be shown but
in this case they are all even. Hence continuity. Last but not least is connection. Virtually any line graph describes
the connection principle well. Things that are connected to each
other with a line are related. So, that was pretty high level but hopefully a straightforward
explanation of the Gestalt Principle. We need to keep these in mind because
these principles are how people see visualizations. If they seem basic,
it's because it's really intrinsic to our understanding of visualizations and
the world around us. So you can apply them to eliminate
clutter and reduce cognitive load. So I'll see you next time.