[MUSIC] Hi there. In this lesson i want to discuss a concept
called pre-attentive attributes. And after this lesson you
will be able to identify and use pre-attentive attributes
in your visualization. Okay, so what do I mean by
pre-attentive attributes? Well, they are a way to get
the brain to immediately focus on certain aspects of a visualization. We have three types of memory, iconic,
short-term, and long-term memory. If we want to get something
in the reader's brain without them having to think about it then
we need to tap the iconic memory. To hear more, let's get started. [MUSIC] Iconic memory is how we get a sense of
what is happening in front of us in that split second before the brain kicks in. Short-term memory is where we
deal with the cognitive load. As we saw at the end of the last module,
when we designed a visualization that depended on a legend to guide us,
it required way too much work. But we could simplify it to
appeal to that short-term memory. Finally, long term memory is what we
retain for a long period of time. We're not really interested in
that aspect in this module. Even though, of course it's very
important to us in our lives. We want to build visualizations to try to
hit the iconic and short term memories. I now want to do an experiment with you. I'm going to show you
a simple set of numbers, and all I want you to do, is to count how
many of the number four that you see. In other words, How many fours do
you count in that list of numbers? I'm going to now show you the same
list but I made one modification, it's hopefully a very notable modification
and that's exactly the point. I want to see how long it
takes you to see those fours. So again, count the number of 4s. It should be exactly the same because
it's the same list of numbers, except I've already identified the 4s for
you. Okay, so did you see five 4s total? There should have been five of the number 4 and it seems very trivial and
that's exactly the point. Did you notice how instantaneous it was? The whole point of doing
visualizations is to enable the reader to see what we want them to
see before they even know that they're looking for
or that they've seen it. It's pretty amazing and
awesome how the mind works, and we want to take advantage of that
whenever we're doing visualizations. So if you want to draw
the eyes of your audience, you can change the characteristic of
the element you want people to see. You can change the size, the color, orientation, shape, line, length or width,
you can put in an enclosure, intensity, or spatial position. All of those are preattentive
attributes and more. Each of these have their uses,
depending on what you're visualizing. For example, some preattentive attributes
have an implicit quantitative element like a bar in a bar graph or
a line in a line graph. Some, like shape or color,
are used for categories. The key is to use them sparingly and strategically to draw
the attention of the audience. Now that I introduced the concept of
pre-attentive attributes, in the next lesson I'm going to focus on the most used
pre-attentive attribute and visualization. You can maybe guess it but
I'm not going to quite say what it is. But I'll see you then and
then I'll reveal it, bye!