[MUSIC] Hey there and welcome to this
final lesson within this module. I'm very excited to be at this point
because what we're going to do is a deep dive into one visualization. We're going to go from having a not so
beautiful visualization to a de-cluttered one, and hopefully one
that actually looks kind of nice too. The purpose of this lesson is to
demonstrate how you would effectively de-clutter visualization, taking into
account various elements of the topics that we discussed throughout this module. The visualization that we're
going to de-clutter is from the United States Department
of Agriculture or USDA. And we've seen this visualization
before from earlier in this module. Because the information that
the USDA has is generally public, we happen to have the underlying
data set for this visualization. So let's dive in. [MUSIC] Now what I've been showing you is actually
an image from the US Department of Agriculture. I do have the data. So I attempted to
faithfully replicate their rather interesting cylindrical
3D type of graph that they have on their website in Excel,
and you can see that here. You can see the underlying data
which I'm showing you here and the before visualization. And we're going to take this,
and make it more effective. Because the information that
the USDA has is generally public. Luckily we have the underlying data set
that we have from this visualization. Which is great it makes our efforts to
go through this exercise much easier, much cleaner. So let's talk about what
we need to do here. The first thing I'm going to
do is remove the 3D effect. And I've said this several times, and I'm going to say it several more
times I'm sure, don't do 3D charts. A 3D chart showing 2D data doesn't
add any value to your charts, but does add a lot of noise, and
makes the chart much harder to read. So I'm just going to do that by creating
a whole new chart to start over, and then we can compare how it's looking
with the one I want to de-clutter. The next thing we are going to do is, we're going to make
the colors much less intense. We have already a fairly mellow blue. And I'm going to change it to a gray. And so the idea is that we want to just
take it down a notch or several notches. Bright colors are frankly
tiring to look at, the USDA graph is very tiring to look at. Here's a, in a very intense blue,
that clashes with the gold or yellow, or whatever color that is. So, I'm just going to tone it down by
making it a nice shade of grey for now. The bar widths seem a little off to me. I actually think that the USDA
graph did a good job of having the correct bar width,
assuming that the 2D, if you infer the 2D, it seems like it's the right,
appropriate bar width. So we want to, what I'm going to do
is just make them just wide enough so that the white space, so
there's enough white space so that the bars are slightly thicker
than the white space between them. When the bars are too close together, your brand will naturally try
to evaluate area versus length. So we want to have that right balance. And that's what I'm doing here. My next suggestion is pretty
counter-intuitive, but it's well in line with
what we're getting to. Which is always sort of de-cluttering, making everything every clean and
easy for people to read. So what I'm going to do is I
want to remove the x axis and actually add that data labels directly. So that we can just compare
the numbers directly instead of people having to go down
the bottom to try to infer it. We could actually just tell
them what that number is. Final changes actually,
to improve readability quite a bit, is to sort the bars in descending order. So what we're going to do is make it so
that people can easily see without having to figure out the order, where the price inflation
is the highest and the lowest, instead of having to guess it. Just give that information. And we can do it by sorting it. Plus we have the data labeled. That combination will be very helpful. So I'm actually going to
dispense with the reference line. I actually find that the reference
line is not very effective. Instead I'm going to put some text and say that the national average is 25.5,
and just leave it at that. And then people will then
have that information. I'll put it near the 25 line, but I think it's just better to not
provide that piece of information. Sometimes those reference lines are
helpful, I think here as I was thinking about it before presenting, I think
it's just a distraction to the data. Our final point is that, a very good practice after creating
a chart is to take a step back. Notice, I breathe right
before saying that. You take a step back and
identify necessary elements. Just eliminate that clutter and
just remove them. Repeat this process until
nothing else can be removed. Because every element of
the visualization has a purpose and supports the objective
of the visualization. And that is fundamentally
what it's all about. What is the objective
of the visualization? And, I think that the after is
a much better representation of an explanation of retail
food price inflation, than the original screencast. And I'll do that once I get the okay
to do the official screencast. And then, that's it. So this concludes this lesson and
the module.